GOOD EVENING, EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE JUNE SIX MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU&apos;RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE
TO THE FLAG OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA AND TO THE
REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT STANDS
ONE NATION UNDER GOD
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL.
WHAT A CLERK PLEASE CALL THE
ROLE OF COUNSEL ELSMERE HAYNER
HERE TOWNSMAN DISH APSA
COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD HERE COMES
FIRST OFF HERE COUNTERPROGRAM
HERE KAUSAR DENHA APSA MAYOR
TAYLOR HERE THAT&apos;S MARIAH HERE
COUNCILMAN ALSO HERE COUNCILMAN
BRIGGS HERE CUSTOMER RIMAWI
PRESENT WE HAVE A QUORUM.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA.
THAT&apos;S MY BROTHER IN LAW HE
SECONDED BY COUNCILMAN GRAND
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA A
FAVOR POSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED TO HAVE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR NO SIR.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
WE NOW HAVE OUR REGULAR MONTHLY
UPDATE FROM THE INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION CHAIR DR. LISA
JACKSON.
&gt;&gt; DR. JACKSON, YOU HAVE THE
CONN
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO DON&apos;T KNOW
ME, MY NAME IS LISA JACKSON,
THE CHAIR OF INTERIOR&apos;S
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION.
I WANT TO START OFF THIS
EVENING BY ACKNOWLEDGING TWO
OCCASIONS TO CELEBRATE IN THIS
MONTH OF JUNE, THE FIRST BEING
THAT JUNE IS LGBT PRIDE MONTH
AND THE SECOND IS THAT
JUNETEENTH IS COMING UP ON JUNE
19TH.
IT GOES WITHOUT SAYING THAT
BOTH LGBTQ AND AFRICAN-AMERICAN
COMMUNITIES HAVE SPECIFIC
CONCERNS WHEN IT COMES TO
POLICING THAT MUST BE ADDRESSED
BEYOND THE BASIC WORK WE HAVE
TO DO TO MAKE POLICE BETTER AND
FOR ALL MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMUNITY.
&gt;&gt; WITH THAT SAID, IT&apos;S
IMPORTANT TO CONSIDER DIVERSE
PERSPECTIVES BEYOND THE UNIQUE
CHALLENGES THAT WE FACE BY
LISTENING TO MORE VOICES, WE&apos;RE
BETTER ABLE TO OVERCOME OUR
BLIND SPOTS AND CREATE A WORLD
THAT&apos;S MORE TOLERANT, MORE
ACCOMMODATING AND MOST
IMPORTANTLY MORE ACCESSIBLE TO
ALL OF ITS INHABITANTS MOVING
ON ON BEHALF OF OUR COMMISSION,
I&apos;D LIKE TO EXPRESS A
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF EXCITEMENT
FOR THE RESULTS OF WORK THAT
HAS BEEN GOING ON IN THE
BACKGROUND FOR A VERY LONG TIME
AFTER MUCH BACK AND FORTH WITH
THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND WITH
THE HELP OF THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR&apos;S OFFICE, WE ARE
LOOKING FORWARD TO ANN ARBOR
TRAFFIC STOP DATA SOON BEING
MADE AVAILABLE NOT JUST TO OUR
COMMISSION BUT TO THE GENERAL
PUBLIC ON A REGULAR BASIS AND
ON A PERMANENT BASIS THUS WE
CAN JOIN THE LIKES OF DATA SETS
THAT EXIST AT STANFORD, FOR
EXAMPLE.
&gt;&gt; AND IN ADDITION TO BEING
EXTREMELY VALUABLE AS A
RESOURCE FOR OUR OWN WORK, THIS
REPRESENTS A LARGE STEP FORWARD
TOWARDS A MORE TRANSPARENT AND
OUR POLICE DEPARTMENT.
AND SO I&apos;D LIKE TO THANK BOTH
CHIEF COX AND ESPECIALLY CITY
ADMINISTRATOR FOR THEIR
COLLABORATION.
&gt;&gt; IT HELD ITS MOST RECENT
PUBLIC FORUM TWO WEEKS AGO ON
MAY 25TH.
THE DATE WAS COINCIDENTAL BUT
THAT DAY MARKED TWO YEARS SINCE
GEORGE FLOYD WAS MURDERED IN
TWENTY TWENTY LIKE MOST OF OUR
MEETINGS MANY OF THE ISSUES WE
CONSIDERED WERE BIG.
WE TALKED ABOUT THINGS LIKE
POLICE SHOOTINGS, LARGER POLICY
DISCUSSIONS AND HOW WE ENACT
CULTURAL CHANGES THAT WILL
POSITIVELY CHANGE POLICING.
THESE CONVERSATIONS ARE
IMPORTANT ESPECIALLY SO IN
LIGHT OF THE UVALDA SHOOTING IN
WHICH 19 PEOPLE WERE KILLED.
&gt;&gt; THAT TRAGEDY AND THE WAY IT
WAS HANDLED BY POLICE IN THAT
CASE REALLY SHOW HOW POLICY
MATTERS AND WHAT&apos;S AT STAKE
LITERALLY IT IS PEOPLE&apos;S LIVES
.
ONE OF THE REASONS WHY OUR
PUBLIC FORUMS ARE IMPORTANT IS
BECAUSE THE FLOOR IS OPEN AND
WE SPEND ALMOST ALL OF THE TIME
LISTENING TO PEOPLE&apos;S OPINIONS
ON WHAT CAN BE CHANGED AND ON
WHAT CAN BE IMPROVED.
FOR EXAMPLE, A YOUNG MAN CAME
UP AND BEFORE HE EVEN SAID WHAT
HAD HAPPENED TO HIM AND WHAT HE
WANTED TO TALK ABOUT, HE
APOLOGIZED FOR HIS PROBLEM NOT
BEING AT THE SCALE OF THE OTHER
THINGS WE&apos;VE BEEN DISCUSSING.
BUT AS HE BEGAN TO SPEAK IT WAS
CLEAR THAT WHAT HE HAD TO SAY
WAS EXACTLY THE REASON
OVERSIGHT EXISTS.
OVERSIGHT ISN&apos;T JUST THE BIG
THINGS
.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S EVERYTHING FROM THE
KINDS OF THINGS WE SEE ON TV
ALL THE WAY DOWN TO THE WAY
POLICE INTERACT WITH YOU.
SO EVEN THOUGH IT CAN FEEL LIKE
YOUR PROBLEM ISN&apos;T AS BIG OF A
DEAL AS THE THINGS WE SEE IN
THE NEWS , YOUR EXPERIENCES ARE
VALID AND WE WANT TO HEAR ABOUT
THEM.
UNLIKE MOST COMMISSIONS EPOXI
STRUCTURES ITS MEETINGS AS A
PUBLIC FORUM SPECIFICALLY SO
THAT WE CAN HAVE A DIALOG WITH
THE COMMUNITY NO MATTER WHAT IT
IS YOU HAVE TO TALK ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; WE WANT TO HEAR YOUR VOICE
BECAUSE AT THE END OF THE DAY
POLICING ISN&apos;T JUST WHEN PEOPLE
GET SHOT SO WE WANT TO MAKE
SURE WE&apos;RE WORKING ON IMPROVING
THE POLICE BEYOND THEIR CRISIS
RESPONSE CAPABILITIES.
YOU CAN OF COURSE COME OUT AND
SPEAK AT OUR PUBLIC FORUMS BUT
YOU CAN ALSO GET IN CONTACT
WITH US ONLINE THROUGH SOCIAL
MEDIA.
WE ARE A TO EPOXI ON TWITTER.
WE&apos;RE ON FACEBOOK AND OUR
OVERSIGHT AND OF COURSE YOU CAN
ALWAYS EMAIL ME L. JACKSON I
SEE AT GMAIL DOT COM OUR
COMMISSION WAS FORMED TO
AMPLIFY THE VOICES OF THE
COMMUNITY.
&gt;&gt; WE WANT EVERYONE IN THE
COMMUNITY TO FEEL IMPORTANT
ENOUGH TO USE IT.
PLEASE JOIN US AT OUR NEXT
PUBLIC FORUM WHICH WILL BE
TUESDAY, JUNE 28TH FROM SIX TO
EIGHT P.M. AT THE ANN ARBOR
FARMER&apos;S MARKET.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, DR. JACKSON.
WE NOW HAVE AN INTRODUCTION
WITH RESPECT TO NATIONAL GUN
VIOLENCE AWARENESS DAY.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU PLEASE
AS ME AS WE
ALL KNOW WE ALL KNOW THE ISSUE
OF GUN VIOLENCE AND AND GUN
SAFETY REGULATION HAS BEEN
FRONT AND CENTER OF THE
NATIONAL CONVERSATION OF LATE
FOR FOR HER FOR A VARIETY
OF HER AND ONGOING SET
OF HORRIFIC REASONS.
THE GUN VIOLENCE IS OF COURSE A
A NATIONAL PATHOLOGY AND THE
THE INABILITY OF OUR POLITICAL
SYSTEM WITH ITS ITS INGRAINED
DESIRE TO COUNTER MAJORITARIAN
DESIGNS TO SUCCESSFULLY TO
SUCCESSFULLY REGULATE FIREARMS
AND TO PROMOTE GUN GUN SAFETY
IS IS ONE OF OUR ONGOING AND
MOST MOST PERSISTENT CHALLENGES
.
THIS OF COURSE OCCURS AT THE
NATIONAL LEVEL AND AT THE STATE
LEVEL AND AS A CONSEQUENCE AT
THE STATE LEVEL MUCH ON THE
LOCAL LEVEL WE IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR DO ALL THAT WE CAN
IN ORDER TO PROMOTE GUN SAFETY,
TO REDUCE GUN VIOLENCE
OF COURSE THROUGH OUR POLICE
DEPARTMENT, OUR JUDICIAL SYSTEM
AND OUR SOCIAL SERVICES THAT WE
PROVIDE AND THAT WE COOPERATE
WITH OTHERS IN OUR COMMUNITY TO
PROVIDE WE AS A MUNICIPAL
ORGANIZATION ARE LOOKING AT
FURTHER WAYS THAT WE CAN TAKE
ACTION IN THIS REGARD WITH
PARTICULARITY EXPLORING BUYBACK
PROGRAMS AND FURTHER EXPLORING
THE POSSIBILITY OF AN ORDINANCE
WHICH WOULD HELP OUR LAW
ENFORCEMENT SUPPORT THE
JUDICIARY WHEN THEY ISSUE RED
FLAG ORDERS.
&gt;&gt; THESE ARE ONGOING THINGS
THAT WE ARE STRIVING TO DO THAT
WE ARE LOOKING TO SEE WHETHER
WE ARE ABLE TO DO BUT IN THE
MEANTIME OF COURSE WHAT WE ALL
CAN DO IS WE CAN ADVOCATE FOR
FOR GUN SAFETY, FOR CESSATION
OF GUN VIOLENCE AND THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT IS IS WELL KNOWN
OF COURSE BY BY SO MANY IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
&gt;&gt; SO IT IS MY GREAT PLEASURE
TO ISSUE THIS PROCLAMATION
TODAY.
&gt;&gt; NATIONAL GUN VIOLENCE
AWARENESS WHEREAS EVERY DAY
MORE THAN ONE HUNDRED AND TEN
AMERICANS ARE KILLED BY GUN
VIOLENCE.
TWO HUNDRED MORE SHOT AND
WOUNDED NEARLY 16000 GUN
HOMICIDES ANNUALLY WHEREAS
AMERICANS ARE TWENTY SIX MORE
TIMES LIKELY TO DIE BY GUN
HOMICIDE THAN OTHER HIGH INCOME
COUNTRIES.
WHEREAS CITIES ACROSS THE
NATION INCLUDING IN ANN ARBOR
ARE WORKING TO END THE
SENSELESS VIOLENCE WITH
EVIDENCE BASED SOLUTIONS AND
WHEREAS PROTECTING PUBLIC
SAFETY IN THESE COMMUNITIES IS
OUR HIGHEST PRIORITY WHEREAS
LOCAL GOVERNMENT LAW
ENFORCEMENT KNOW THAT THEIR
THEIR COMMUNITIES BEST AND
WHERE AS THEY ARE MOST FAMILIAR
WITH LOCAL CRIMINAL ACTIVITY
AND BEST POSITIONED TO
UNDERSTAND HOW TO KEEP THEIR
SECURITY, THEIR CITIZENS AND
RESIDENTS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS
SAFE WHEREAS GUN VIOLENCE
PREVENTION IS MORE IMPORTANT
THAN EVER AS THE COVID-19
PANDEMIC CONTINUES TO
EXACERBATE GUN VIOLENCE AFTER
MORE THAN TWO YEARS
OF INCREASED GUN SALES CALLS TO
SUICIDE AND DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
HOTLINES AND AN INCREASE IN
CITY GUN VIOLENCE WHEREAS IN
JANUARY 2013 HADIYA PENDLETON
WAS TRAGICALLY SHOT AND KILLED
AT AGE 15 TO RECOGNIZE THE 25TH
BIRTHDAY OF HADIYA PENDLETON,
PEOPLE ACROSS THE UNITED STATES
WILL RECOGNIZE GUN VIOLENCE
AWARENESS DAY AND WE WERE
ORANGE IN TRIBUTE TO HER AND
OTHER VICTIMS OF GUN VIOLENCE
WHEREAS THE IDEA WAS INSPIRED
BY A GROUP OF IDEAS FRIENDS WHO
ASKED CLASSMATES TO COMMEMORATE
HER LIFE BY WEARING ORANGE AS
DO HUNTERS FOR SAFETY A COLOR
SYMBOLIZING THE VALUE OF HUMAN
LIFE.
WHEREAS ANYONE CAN JOIN THIS
CAMPAIGN BY PLEDGING TO WEAR
AHRONS ON GUN AWARENESS GUN
VIOLENCE AWARENESS DAY AND HELP
RAISE AWARENESS OF GUN VIOLENCE
WHEREAS WE HERE TODAY RENEW OUR
COMMITMENT TO REDUCE GUN
VIOLENCE AND PLEDGE TO DO ALL
WE CAN TO KEEP FIREARMS IN THE
WRONG HANDS AND TO ENCOURAGE
RESPONSIBLE GUN OWNERSHIP TO
HELP KEEP OUR CHILDREN SAFE.
NOW THEREFORE I.
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR, MAYOR
OF ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN DO JOIN
MOMS DEMAND ACTION IN DECLARING
FRIDAY JUNE 3RD, 2022 TO BE GUN
VIOLENCE AWARENESS DAY,
ENCOURAGE ALL CITIZENS AND
RESIDENTS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS
TO SUPPORT LOCAL COMMUNITIES
EFFORTS TO PREVENT THE TRAGIC
EFFECTS OF GUN VIOLENCE AND TO
HONOR AND VALUE HUMAN LIVES.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; I WILL BE BRIEF MAYOR TAYLOR
VERY SUCCINCTLY AND WONDERFULLY
MADE COMMENTS THAT I MAY
REITERATE HERE AND READING THIS
AMAZING PROCLAMATION BUT GOOD
EVENING.
THANK YOU FOR WELCOMING
MANSMANN ACTION HERE.
MY NAME IS MARY BAILEY.
I&apos;M AN ANN ARBOR RESIDENT
OF WARD TWO AND A VOLUNTEER
LEAD WITH THE LOCAL GROUP
OF WASHTENAW COUNTY MOMS DEMAND
ACTION FOR GUN SENSE IN AMERICA
ON BEHALF OF OUR LOCAL LEADS
TEAM AND VOLUNTEERS AND
SUPPORTERS AS WELL AS OUR
MICHIGAN CHAPTER.
WE THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR AND
THE COUNCIL MEMBERS OF ANN
ARBOR FOR SUPPORTING THE
PROCLAMATION MAKING JUNE 3RD
TWENTY TWENTY TWO GUN VIOLENCE
AWARENESS DAY IN OUR CITY THIS
PAST WHERE ORANGE DAY AND
WEEKEND ARE IMPORTANT AS WE
HONORED AND REMEMBERED VICTIMS
AND SURVIVORS OF GUN VIOLENCE
AS NOTED IN THE PROCLAMATION
OVER ONE HUNDRED AND TEN GUN
DEATHS OCCUR EACH DAY IN THIS
COUNTRY AS WELL AS OVER TWO
HUNDRED MORE WHO ARE INJURED BY
GUNS IN THE WAKE OF MASS
SHOOTINGS THAT GRAB HEADLINES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
IT CAN BE DIFFICULT TO REMEMBER
THAT THIS IS A DAILY OCCURRENCE
IN OUR COUNTRY AND THE RIPPLE
EFFECT OF GUN VIOLENCE IS LONG
REACHING AND COMPLEX.
WHILE IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO RAISE
PUBLIC AWARENESS ABOUT THE
DAILY TOLL OF GUN VIOLENCE IN
OUR COMMUNITIES AND ACROSS THE
COUNTRY, WE DO SO ONLY SO THAT
WE CAN THEN TAKE ACTION
TOGETHER.
WE ASK OUR LOCAL
REPRESENTATIVES TO COMMIT TO
TAKING REAL ACTIONABLE STEPS TO
MAKE OUR NEIGHBORHOODS SAFER
FOR ALL RESIDENTS OF ALL AGES
RACES, ETHNICITIES AND
SOCIOECONOMIC BACKGROUNDS
OF ALL POLITICAL LEANINGS BE
THEY GUN OWNERS OR NOT.
WE ARE REALLY LUCKY TO LIVE IN
A CITY WHERE PEOPLE ARE ENGAGED
AND CONCERNED ABOUT OUR
COMMUNITIES AND OUR NEIGHBORS.
MOMS OF WASHTENAW COUNTY ARE
COMMITTED TO WORKING WITH LOCAL
ORGANIZATIONS WHO ALREADY DO
THE WORK OF ALLEVIATING THE
SYSTEMIC ISSUES THAT CONTRIBUTE
TO GUN VIOLENCE AND AID IN THIS
EPIDEMIC THAT IS RAMPANT
THROUGHOUT MICHIGAN AS WELL AS
THIS COUNTRY.
AND TONIGHT WE JUST REITERATE
OUR ASK THAT YOU JOIN US IN
THIS EFFORT.
SO THANK YOU ONCE AGAIN FOR
WEARING ORANGE THIS PAST
WEEKEND FOR REMEMBERING THE GUN
VIOLENCE VICTIMS AND SURVIVORS
AND FOR STANDING WITH US TO
CONTINUE IN THE FIGHT TO END
VIOLENCE JUST ALAS NOT OK.
&gt;&gt; NOW A PROCLAMATION WITH
RESPECT TO LGBTQ PRIDE MONTH.
WELCOME SO AS AS FOLKS IN ANN
ARBOR AND THEN THROUGHOUT THE
LAND OF NO JUNE IS PRIDE MONTH.
IT IS A DAY A MONTH IN WHICH WE
CERTAINLY HERE IN ANN ARBOR AND
INDEED THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY
CELEBRATE TO THE OF OUR LGBTQ
COMMUNITY MEMBERS OF THE LGBT
LGBTQ MEMBERS OF THE ANN ARBOR
COMMUNITY ARE OUR SOME OF THEY
MAKE US INDEED WHAT WE ARE AND
I ONE LIKES TO SAY THAT ANN
ARBOR IS A WELCOMING COMMUNITY
BUT TO TALK ABOUT ANN ARBOR AS
A WELCOMING COMMUNITY CREATES A
CERTAIN AMOUNT OF DISTANCE
BETWEEN PEOPLES.
AND SO I&apos;M GOING TO I DON&apos;T
LIKE TO FRAME IT LIKE THAT BUT
I DO LIKE TO SAY IS THAT WE ARE
A WE VALUE PLURALISM.
WE VALUE ALL MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMUNITY, ALL GROUPS WITHIN
OUR COMMUNITY, ALL UNIQUE AND
BEAUTIFUL IDENTITIES WITHIN OUR
COMMUNITY AND SANABIS LGBTQ
MEMBERS ARE FRONT AND CENTER IN
ALL OF THAT AND TODAY AS WE
DECLARE A DECLARATION OF JUNE
AS PRIDE MONTH, WE DO SO WITH
WE UNDERSTAND THE DUALITY
OF THAT DECLARATION.
THE DECLARATION OF COURSE
SPEAKS AND UNDERSTANDS THAT
LGBTQ MEMBERS OF OUR COMMUNITY
BOTH HERE AND OF COURSE
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY AND
WORLD HAVE SUFFERED INVIDIOUS
DISCRIMINATION AND IRRATIONAL
HATE SINCE TIME IMMEMORIAL AND
THAT THAT CONTINUES TODAY.
BUT PRIDE MONTH ALSO, OF COURSE
IS A TREMENDOUS CELEBRATION.
IT IS AN EXALTATION OF LGBTQ
LIVES AND LOVE AND PEOPLE AND
COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND IT IS IN
THAT SPIRIT AND ON THAT ASPECT
OF THE MONTH THAT WE CELEBRATE
AND EMPHASIZE.
AND SO IT IS MY GREAT PLEASURE
TO READ A PROCLAMATION WITH
RESPECT TO JUNE 22 AND OUR LGBT
PRIDE IF I MAY.
&gt;&gt; WHEREAS EACH JUNE LGBTQ
PEOPLE AND THEIR FRIENDS AND
FAMILY RECOGNIZE THE JOURNEY
TOWARD LIBERATION AND THOSE WHO
HAVE FOUGHT FOR EQUALITY
INCLUDING
THE AND TRANSGENDER
PEOPLE OF COLOR WHO TOOK TO THE
STREETS IN NEW YORK CITY AT THE
STONEWALL INN AND IN COUNTRIES
IN PART OF ME AND CITIES
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY.
&gt;&gt; AND WE ARE AS A CITY OF ANN
ARBOR HOLDS A HISTORIC PLACE IN
THE HISTORY OF LGBT MOVEMENT
FOR EQUALITY.
FOR 50 YEARS AGO THE CITY
ISSUED WAS FIRST TO ISSUE A
PRIDE WEEK PROCLAMATION AND WAS
AMONG THE FIRST CITIES IN THE
NATION TO PASS AN ORDINANCE TO
PROTECT RESIDENTS FROM
DISCRIMINATION BASED ON SEXUAL
ORIENTATION.
LATER TO ADD GENDER IDENTITY
PROTECTION.
AND THAT SAME YEAR 50 YEARS
AGO, TWO CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
N-E NANCY SCHALER AND JERRY DE
GRILK WERE AMONG THE FIRST
ELECTED OFFICIALS NATIONWIDE TO
COME OUT AS GAY AND KATHY
COUSIN SHINKO WITH THE FIRST
GAY OR LESBIAN PERSON TO
SUCCESSFULLY RUN FOR POLITICAL
OFFICE IN THE UNITED STATES AND
MORE THE A CITY BANABA
CONTINUES TO LEAD WITHIN THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN AND WORKING
TO ADVANCE EQUALITY AND SAFETY
FOR OUR LGBTQ PEOPLE INCLUDING
THROUGH ROBUST
NONDISCRIMINATION PROTECTIONS
AND A BAN ON THE DISCREDITED
PRACTICE OF CONVERSION THERAPY
AMARA&apos;S THIS YEAR BOTH IN
MICHIGAN AND AROUND THE
COUNTRY, STATE LEGISLATORS HAVE
INTRODUCED AND PASSED A RECORD
NUMBER OF BILLS ATTACKING LGBTQ
PEOPLE, PARTICULARLY
TRANSGENDER YOUTH AND THEIR
FAMILIES.
MIRAZ THE COVID PANDEMIC AND
THE RESULTING ECONOMIC
INSTABILITY HAS
DISPROPORTIONATELY BEEN FELT BY
LGBT PEOPLE, PARTICULARLY BLACK
AND LATINO LGBTQ COMMUNITY
MEMBERS.
NOW THEREFORE I CHRISTOPHER
TAYLOR DO HEREBY PROCLAIM JUNE
22 AS PRIDE MONTH AND FIRM OUR
CITY AND COMMUNITY&apos;S COMMITMENT
TO WORKING AGAINST
DISCRIMINATION AND VIOLENCE
AGAINST LGBTQ PEOPLE AND
ENSURING THAT ALL LGBTQ
COMMUNITY MEMBERS IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR ARE CELEBRATED AND
HAVE DIGNITY, EQUALITY AND
JUSTICE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S GO.
HI EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS NAOMI GOLDBERG AND I
SERVE AS MY LGBTQ LIAISON TO
THE MAYOR&apos;S OFFICE AND TO ALL
OF YOU ON COUNCIL AND I JUST
WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
CONTINUING AMAZING HISTORY THAT
WE HAVE HERE IN ANN ARBOR
AROUND LGBTQ EQUALITY.
AS MAYOR TAYLOR SAID, WE HAVE
HISTORIC CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
WHO REALLY HAVE CREATED ANN
ARBOR AND LED THE WAY AND YOU
ALL TAKE AN INCREDIBLE ACTION
THROUGH DIFFERENT ORDINANCES TO
MAKE SURE THAT EVERYONE IN THE
COMMUNITY IS PROTECTED AND
FEELS WELCOME.
&gt;&gt; AND I APPRECIATE HOW MUCH
THOSE THINGS MEAN TO THE
COMMUNITY ESPECIALLY RIGHT NOW
THIS YEAR I FEEL LIKE PRIDE IS
BOTH THE CELEBRATION BUT ALSO
THIS RESISTANCE AND THAT&apos;S HOW
IT STARTED.
AND YET AGAIN WE FIND OURSELVES
IN THAT EXACT MOMENT.
SO I JUST WANT I APPRECIATE
EVERYONE AND WHAT YOU DO EVERY
DAY TO MAKE SURE THAT OUR
COMMUNITIES ARE THE STRONGEST
THAT THEY CAN BE AND THANK YOU
,MAYOR TAYLOR.
&gt;&gt; HAPPY PRIDE.
THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TYPE COMMENT RESERVE
TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK
TO COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME ONE NEEDS
TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR
CLERK OR THE TIME CLOCK WILL
NOTIFY YOU IN 30 SECONDS
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
JIM MOGENSEN.
IT&apos;S BEEN A WHILE.
I&apos;M NOT HERE TO TALK ABOUT THE
TWENTY NINE ONE HUNDRED AND
SIXTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS TO
SUPPORT THE STAFF WORKING ON
HOUSING AND HUMAN SERVICES IN
THIS COORDINATION WITH THE
COUNTY.
IF YOU TAKE MY NAME YOU PUT IT
IN A GOOGLE SEARCH ENGINE AND
THEN YOU TYPE IN RED RIBBON
CHART THERE IT WILL COME UP AS
A LINK TO AN OLD ARCHIVED ANN
ARBOR CHRONICLE ARTICLE I USED
TO COME TO TRY TO DEMONSTRATE A
PERSPECTIVE LAST MONTH PASSED
THE BUDGET AND YOU INCLUDED A
NEW CITY ATTORNEY FOR ONE
HUNDRED AND SIXTY FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS.
NOT AGAINST THAT.
I&apos;M JUST TRYING TO SHOW THE
PERSPECTIVE.
THERE USED TO BE A COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
&gt;&gt; THEY HAD ABOUT TWENTY YEARS
AGO EVERYBODY STARTED
RESTRUCTURING AND THEY CUT THE
STAFF BY TWENTY PERCENT AND
THEN ALL OF A SUDDEN, YOU KNOW,
THINGS STARTED DISAPPEARING,
CHANGING, MERGING.
THERE WAS A POINT IN WHICH I
HAD TO MAKE A JOKE ABOUT NOT
FIRING THE POLICE DEPARTMENT,
YOU KNOW, BECAUSE YOU MERGED
THEM INTO SAFETY SERVICES,
HUMAN RESOURCES AND HUMAN
RIGHT.
I MEAN IT WAS JUST RIDICULOUS
AND MY LATE FRIEND JIM TOY
RIGHT.
CALLED ME I WORK WITH HIM ON
AND MY LATE FRIEND JIM TOY
CHURCH ISSUES.
CALLED ME I WORK WITH HIM ON
I DID ECONOMIC JUSTICE.
CHURCH ISSUES.
&gt;&gt; HE DID KUAI I STUFF HE SAID
I DID ECONOMIC JUSTICE.
JIM WHO DO WE CALL AND I HAD TO
&gt;&gt; HE DID KUAI I STUFF HE SAID
CHECK AND I SAID HUMAN
JIM WHO DO WE CALL AND I HAD TO
RESOURCES NO ONE EVER THOUGHT
CHECK AND I SAID HUMAN
TO ACTUALLY MAKE A COMPLAINT TO
RESOURCES NO ONE EVER THOUGHT
HUMAN RESOURCES NEVER OCCURRED
TO ACTUALLY MAKE A COMPLAINT TO
TO THEM.
HUMAN RESOURCES NEVER OCCURRED
IT DOESN&apos;T MAKE ANY SENSE.
TO THEM.
IT&apos;S PROBABLY CHANGED BY NOW
IT DOESN&apos;T MAKE ANY SENSE.
BUT IT&apos;S HUGE.
IT&apos;S PROBABLY CHANGED BY NOW
THIS WAS A HUGE PROBLEM SO IN
BUT IT&apos;S HUGE.
2009 I KEPT ON DOING THIS THIS
THIS WAS A HUGE PROBLEM SO IN
DAY AND NOW IT USED TO BE A
2009 I KEPT ON DOING THIS THIS
MILLION DOLLARS WAS ONE FOOT
DAY AND NOW IT USED TO BE A
AND SO IT WOULD FIT ON MY
MILLION DOLLARS WAS ONE FOOT
LITTLE THING AND THEN THE
AND SO IT WOULD FIT ON MY
ENTIRE OPERATING BUDGET WAS 80
LITTLE THING AND THEN THE
FEET.
ENTIRE OPERATING BUDGET WAS 80
NOW THE AMOUNT THAT&apos;S IN HUMAN
FEET.
RESOURCES, THE HUMAN SERVICES
NOW THE AMOUNT THAT&apos;S IN HUMAN
HASN&apos;T CHANGED MATERIALLY BUT
RESOURCES, THE HUMAN SERVICES
THE ACTUAL OPERATING BUDGET HAS
HASN&apos;T CHANGED MATERIALLY BUT
.
THE ACTUAL OPERATING BUDGET HAS
&gt;&gt; SO IF I DID THAT TONIGHT I
.
DIDN&apos;T WANT TO DO IT BECAUSE
&gt;&gt; SO IF I DID THAT TONIGHT I
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF THE RAIN
DIDN&apos;T WANT TO DO IT BECAUSE
.
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF THE RAIN
&gt;&gt; I WOULD HAVE HAD TO HAVE A
.
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOOT RIBBON
&gt;&gt; I WOULD HAVE HAD TO HAVE A
.
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOOT RIBBON
I WENT OUT THE DOOR AND AROUND
.
THE CORNER.
I WENT OUT THE DOOR AND AROUND
ALL RIGHT.
THE CORNER.
I THINK WE NEED TO KEEP THIS IN
ALL RIGHT.
MIND.
I THINK WE NEED TO KEEP THIS IN
I DON&apos;T WANT TO PUT IN MIND
MIND.
ABOUT WHAT THE SOLUTION IS.
I DON&apos;T WANT TO PUT IN MIND
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S HAVE THE RELIGIOUS
ABOUT WHAT THE SOLUTION IS.
COMMUNITY DO IT OR LET&apos;S HAVE
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S HAVE THE RELIGIOUS
THE NONPROFITS FIGURE IT OUT OR
COMMUNITY DO IT OR LET&apos;S HAVE
RIGHT.
THE NONPROFITS FIGURE IT OUT OR
AND THIS IS ALWAYS THE THING
RIGHT.
THAT COMES UP.
AND THIS IS ALWAYS THE THING
I&apos;VE BEEN WORKING FOR TWENTY
THAT COMES UP.
YEARS WITH RELIGION.
I&apos;VE BEEN WORKING FOR TWENTY
WE CREATED RELIGIOUS ACTION FOR
YEARS WITH RELIGION.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING, RAISING
WE CREATED RELIGIOUS ACTION FOR
MONEY TO SUPPORT SOME OF THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING, RAISING
HOUSING PEOPLE IN RIGHT.
MONEY TO SUPPORT SOME OF THE
&gt;&gt; AND I&apos;M RETIRING NEXT WEEK
HOUSING PEOPLE IN RIGHT.
FROM THE BOARD.
&gt;&gt; AND I&apos;M RETIRING NEXT WEEK
IT&apos;S ABOUT TIME.
FROM THE BOARD.
RIGHT.
IT&apos;S ABOUT TIME.
BUT WHAT I&apos;M SAYING TO YOU IS
RIGHT.
IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO WORK THE
BUT WHAT I&apos;M SAYING TO YOU IS
INFORMATION THAT YOU GOT FROM
IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO WORK THE
THE COVERAGE OF THE COUNTY
INFORMATION THAT YOU GOT FROM
MEETING LAST WEEK SHOULD TELL
THE COVERAGE OF THE COUNTY
YOU SOMETHING.
MEETING LAST WEEK SHOULD TELL
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE GOING TO LOSE PEOPLE.
YOU SOMETHING.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE GOING TO LOSE PEOPLE.
&gt;&gt; OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MILJAN S
THANK YOU.
SAHANI HELLO, ANN ARBOR.
&gt;&gt; OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MILJAN S
I NEVER HEARD CHRIS TAYLOR&apos;S
SAHANI HELLO, ANN ARBOR.
VOICE SHIVER AS MUCH AS IT DID
I NEVER HEARD CHRIS TAYLOR&apos;S
TONIGHT.
VOICE SHIVER AS MUCH AS IT DID
DID YOU?
TONIGHT.
I THINK HIS VOICE WAS SHIVERING
DID YOU?
AND SHAKING BECAUSE HE KNEW HE
I THINK HIS VOICE WAS SHIVERING
WAS LYING, HE SAYS AND HE WANTS
AND SHAKING BECAUSE HE KNEW HE
US TO BELIEVE THAT HE IS
WAS LYING, HE SAYS AND HE WANTS
AGAINST MASSIVE GUN VIOLENCE.
US TO BELIEVE THAT HE IS
HOWEVER, HIS BEHAVIOR HIS
AGAINST MASSIVE GUN VIOLENCE.
ACTIONS THROUGHOUT THE PAST
HOWEVER, HIS BEHAVIOR HIS
MANY YEARS SHOWS THAT HE IS
ACTIONS THROUGHOUT THE PAST
ACTUALLY IN FAVOR OF IT AND HE
MANY YEARS SHOWS THAT HE IS
WILL PROTECT THOSE WHO
ACTUALLY IN FAVOR OF IT AND HE
PERPETUATE GUN VIOLENCE ON A
WILL PROTECT THOSE WHO
MASSIVE SCALE THAT WOULD BE THE
PERPETUATE GUN VIOLENCE ON A
STATE OF ISRAEL, THE APARTHEID
MASSIVE SCALE THAT WOULD BE THE
STATE OF ISRAEL WHICH EVERY
STATE OF ISRAEL, THE APARTHEID
SINGLE INTERNATIONAL BODY THAT
STATE OF ISRAEL WHICH EVERY
HAS EXAMINED THEIR ACTIONS HAS
SINGLE INTERNATIONAL BODY THAT
SAID THEY ARE AN APARTHEID
HAS EXAMINED THEIR ACTIONS HAS
STATE.
SAID THEY ARE AN APARTHEID
THEY TAYLOR, DO YOU THINK THE
STATE.
MOTHER WHO CRIES OVER HIS
THEY TAYLOR, DO YOU THINK THE
DEAD CHILD&apos;S BODY THAT IS IN A
MOTHER WHO CRIES OVER HIS
POOL OF BLOOD IN THE UNITED
DEAD CHILD&apos;S BODY THAT IS IN A
STATES IS FEELING DIFFERENTLY
POOL OF BLOOD IN THE UNITED
THAN A WOMAN WHO CRIES OVER THE
STATES IS FEELING DIFFERENTLY
DEAD BODY OF HIS HER CHILD IN
THAN A WOMAN WHO CRIES OVER THE
GAZA?
DEAD BODY OF HIS HER CHILD IN
DO YOU THINK THEY HAVE
GAZA?
DIFFERENT FEELINGS?
DO YOU THINK THEY HAVE
DO YOU THINK THE LIFE OF A
DIFFERENT FEELINGS?
CHILD IN TEXAS IN NEW YORK IS
DO YOU THINK THE LIFE OF A
MORE WORTHY THAN THE CHILD THAT
CHILD IN TEXAS IN NEW YORK IS
IS LYING EVERY DAY WITH YOUR
MORE WORTHY THAN THE CHILD THAT
TAX DOLLARS IN GAZA IN HEBRON?
IS LYING EVERY DAY WITH YOUR
DO YOU THINK ALL CHILDREN
TAX DOLLARS IN GAZA IN HEBRON?
SHOULD BE VALUED THE SAME OR
DO YOU THINK ALL CHILDREN
SOME CHILDREN ARE MORE VALUABLE
SHOULD BE VALUED THE SAME OR
TO YOU THAN OTHERS?
SOME CHILDREN ARE MORE VALUABLE
YOUR BEHAVIOR SHOWS THAT YOU
TO YOU THAN OTHERS?
PREFER SOME CHILDREN OVER
YOUR BEHAVIOR SHOWS THAT YOU
OTHERS BECAUSE YOU PUT YOUR
PREFER SOME CHILDREN OVER
EVERY EFFORT TO SILENCE ANY
OTHERS BECAUSE YOU PUT YOUR
VOICE AND THAT IS THOUSANDS
EVERY EFFORT TO SILENCE ANY
OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE PETITIONED
VOICE AND THAT IS THOUSANDS
YOU HAVE COME HERE AND SPOKEN
OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE PETITIONED
WHO HAVE SAID AT LEAST
YOU HAVE COME HERE AND SPOKEN
PASSERELLE THAT SAYS NO MORE
WHO HAVE SAID AT LEAST
GUNS TO ISRAEL.
PASSERELLE THAT SAYS NO MORE
ISRAEL IS ONE BIG FAT USER
GUNS TO ISRAEL.
OF GUN VIOLENCE AGAINST MASSES
ISRAEL IS ONE BIG FAT USER
OF CHILDREN.
OF GUN VIOLENCE AGAINST MASSES
IT IS EVERY DAY THAT THEY KILL
OF CHILDREN.
CHILDREN IN GAZA.
IT IS EVERY DAY THAT THEY KILL
IT IS EVERY DAY THE CHILDREN
CHILDREN IN GAZA.
ARE IN A POOL OF BLOOD AND
IT IS EVERY DAY THE CHILDREN
THEIR MOTHERS SIT AND CRY.
ARE IN A POOL OF BLOOD AND
&gt;&gt; IT IS EVERY DAY THAT THAT
THEIR MOTHERS SIT AND CRY.
HAPPENS AND YOU HELP THAT GO ON
&gt;&gt; IT IS EVERY DAY THAT THAT
BECAUSE YOU STAND FIRMLY
HAPPENS AND YOU HELP THAT GO ON
AGAINST ANYTHING THAT ANYBODY
BECAUSE YOU STAND FIRMLY
SAYS TO STOP ISRAEL AND ITS
AGAINST ANYTHING THAT ANYBODY
MASSACRE OF PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
SAYS TO STOP ISRAEL AND ITS
&gt;&gt; YOU WRITE ABOUT A LOT
MASSACRE OF PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
OF THINGS AND THIS IS ONE THAT
&gt;&gt; YOU WRITE ABOUT A LOT
IS SO CLOSE TO MY HEART BECAUSE
OF THINGS AND THIS IS ONE THAT
I&apos;VE LIVED WITH CHILDREN WHO
IS SO CLOSE TO MY HEART BECAUSE
HAVE DIED AND IN THEIR BLOOD
I&apos;VE LIVED WITH CHILDREN WHO
THEIR PARENTS HAVE CRIED FOR
HAVE DIED AND IN THEIR BLOOD
HOURS BECAUSE I&apos;VE SEEN THAT
THEIR PARENTS HAVE CRIED FOR
AND YOU WANT US TO BELIEVE THAT
HOURS BECAUSE I&apos;VE SEEN THAT
YOU CARE FOR GUN VIOLENCE AND
AND YOU WANT US TO BELIEVE THAT
YOU WANTED TO STOP YOUR VOICE
YOU CARE FOR GUN VIOLENCE AND
WAS NOT CONVINCING MR. TAYLOR.
YOU WANTED TO STOP YOUR VOICE
IT WAS TELLING US AND WE HEARD
WAS NOT CONVINCING MR. TAYLOR.
IT THAT YOU DO NOT GIVE A
IT WAS TELLING US AND WE HEARD
FLYING RAT&apos;S ABOUT GUN
IT THAT YOU DO NOT GIVE A
VIOLENCE AND THAT IS A SAD
FLYING RAT&apos;S ABOUT GUN
THING BECAUSE YOU ARE RIGHT
VIOLENCE AND THAT IS A SAD
RACISM IS SYSTEMIC.
THING BECAUSE YOU ARE RIGHT
THE AMERICAN SYSTEM IS RACIST.
RACISM IS SYSTEMIC.
&gt;&gt; WE ASK THAT YOU PASS THE
THE AMERICAN SYSTEM IS RACIST.
RESOLUTION THAT WE ARE AGAINST
&gt;&gt; WE ASK THAT YOU PASS THE
MILITARY.
RESOLUTION THAT WE ARE AGAINST
THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN.
&gt;&gt; MAYOR TAYLOR PRETENSE
TONIGHT TO BE AGAINST GUN
VIOLENCE.
HE MADE A BIG PRETENSE OF BEING
AGAINST GUN VIOLENCE BUT HE HAS
THROWN HIS WEIGHT IN THE
DIRECTION OF MORE GUNS TO
ISRAEL HEAVILY.
&gt;&gt; HE HAS THROWN HIS WEIGHT
AGAINST THE SIMPLEST HUMAN
RIGHTS RESOLUTION IN ANN ARBOR
CITY COUNCIL THAT JUST SAYS WE
ARE AGAINST MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL.
A SIMPLE HUMAN
RIGHTS
RESOLUTION LIKE THAT THAT WOULD
MEAN THE WORLD TO THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
&gt;&gt; THE MAYOR HAS THROWN HIS
WEIGHT AGAINST IT.
&gt;&gt; WE EVEN HAVE A CITY COUNCIL
SITTING HERE COUNCIL MEMBER WHO
TOOK CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS,
CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTIONS FROM OLD
FRIENDS OF THE ISRAEL DEFENSE
FORCES AND SHE&apos;S NODDING HER
HEAD.
THE ISRAEL DEFENSE FORCES HAS
MASSACRED THOUSANDS
OF PALESTINIANS AND I HEAR
YOU&apos;RE NODDING YOUR HEAD LIKE
THAT&apos;S A GOOD THING NOW YOU&apos;RE
SHAKING YOUR HEAD WHICH IS IT
NODDING OR SHAKING WHEN MAYOR
TAYLOR GOES ALL OUT FOR THE
OCCUPIED UKRAINIAN PEOPLE AND
HE THROWS ALL HIS WEIGHT
AGAINST THE OCCUPIED
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE, HE&apos;S
TELLING YOU SOMETHING AND I
HOPE YOU HEAR HIM IN MY OPINION
HE&apos;S TELLING YOU THAT HE IS A
RACIST DOG OF A MAYOR, A RACIST
DOG OF A MAYOR WHO DOESN&apos;T
DESERVE TO REMAIN MAYOR ON
ELECTION DAY.
THE VOTERS NEED TO THROW HIM
OUT.
&gt;&gt; YOU CANNOT TOLERATE A RACIST
GOD DOG AS YOUR MAYOR.
A MAN WHO DEVOTES SO MUCH
EFFORT THROWING HIS WEIGHT
AGAINST SIMPLE PALESTINIAN
HUMAN RIGHTS RESOLUTIONS.
YOU CAN&apos;T AFFORD TO HAVE THAT
KIND OF RACIST DOG IS YOUR
MAYOR AND AT THE SAME TIME,
BOY, IS HE SENTIMENTAL IN
PUBLIC ABOUT WHITE UKRAINIANS
WHO ARE OCCUPIED.
&gt;&gt; THIS MAN IS DEATH ON THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
MAYOR CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR IN MY
OPINION JUST MEANS MORE DEATH
TO THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE AND
NOW FINALLY HE&apos;S MAKING EYE
CONTACT AFTER STARING DOWN HIS
IN HIS LAP FOR SO LONG.
&gt;&gt; BUT I DON&apos;T EXPECT A RACIST
GOD DOG TO CHANGE.
&gt;&gt; I EXPECT YOU TO BE RACIST
FOR THE WHOLE REST OF YOUR LIFE
AND I HOPE YOU LIVE A LONG,
LONG LIFE OUTSIDE OF THIS CITY
COUNCIL OUTSIDE OF THE MAYOR&apos;S
OFFICE, OUTSIDE OF ANY PLACE
WHERE YOU CAN HURT PALESTINIANS
BAD RACIST DOG.
THANK.
&gt;&gt; OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ERIC
LIPSON.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S SEE HOW DO WE FILE
FOLLOW THAT ACT.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M HERE NOW MY THANK YOU.
THANKS FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO
ADDRESS YOU THIS EVENING.
MY NAME IS ERIC LIPTON.
I AM PRESIDENT OF THE FOURTH
WARD SINCE 1990 AND I&apos;M HERE
TONIGHT TO TALK ABOUT DIOXANE
AND TO PLEAD WITH THIS COUNCIL
TO TAKE SOME ACTION ON THIS
TOXIC PLUME WHICH WE ALL KNOW
IS A SLOW MOTION DISASTER WHICH
IS POLLUTING OUR PRECIOUS WATER
TABLE.
ONE OF THE BEST WATER TABLES IN
MICHIGAN HAS BEEN DESTROYED BY
THE GELMAN&apos;S SCIENTIFIC PLUME
AND UNFORTUNATELY OVER THE PAST
WHAT 20, 30 YEARS THAT OUR
GOVERNMENT ON EVERY LEVEL HAS
FAILED US STARTING WITH THE
CHANGE FROM BY THE GOVERNOR
ENGLER&apos;S ADMINISTRATION FROM A
POLLUTER PAY TO A REMEDIATION
STANDARD.
SO NOW POLLUTERS GET TO WALK
FREE UNLESS THEY&apos;RE SUED.
SO THE LAST ACTION THAT THIS
COUNCIL TOOK WAS OVER A YEAR
AGO.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S BEEN NO ACTION.
&gt;&gt; YOU GUYS ARE SAYING OH YEAH,
WE&apos;RE ON THIS.
WHAT HAVE YOU DONE?
HAVE YOU TAKEN A STAND HAVE YOU
HAD A MEETING TO GATHER AND I&apos;M
NOT TALKING ABOUT INDIVIDUAL
BRIEFINGS OR BRIEFINGS TWO OR
THREE TO EVADE THE OPEN
MEETINGS ACT.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S NOT THAT IS NOT ONLY
AN INVASION OF THE OPEN
MEETINGS ACT, IT DOESN&apos;T HELP
THE PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SORRY I DID NOT PAY HER
.
THANK YOU ANYWAY THE ANSWER TO
THIS RIGHT NOW THE SHORT TERM
ANSWER IS THAT WE NEED EPA
INTERVENTION AND WE NEED THE
COUNCIL NOT THE LAWYERS TO TAKE
CHARGE RIGHT NOW THE REASON I&apos;M
HERE IS I BELIEVE ONE OF THE
COUNCIL ITEMS ON THE CONSENT
AGENDA IS FOR MORE LEGAL
SERVICES TO DEAL WITH THIS MAN
.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE CALL ONE SPEAKER AT A
TIME SO THE EPA IS THE ONLY
ANSWER AT THIS POINT.
EAGLE HAS PROVEN ITSELF TO BE
COMPLETELY INEPT.
THEY HAVE DONE ALMOST NOTHING.
&gt;&gt; AS YOU KNOW, YOU REJECTED
THE FOURTH CONSENT JUDGMENT
THAT WAS PROPOSED BY THE
LAWYERS.
IN FACT, EVERY ONE OF THE
INTERVENERS REJECTED THAT AND
NONETHELESS THE COURT AND THE
LAWYERS HAVE TAKEN OVER.
HAVE YOU GUYS SUPERVISED THE
LAWYERS ON THIS?
HAVE YOU HAD MEETING?
HAVE YOU HAVE YOU CONSIDERED IT
HAVE YOU PUT IT ON THE AGENDA?
NO.
SO PLEASE I BEG YOU AND THE
PEOPLE OF ANN HARBOR BEG YOU
BECAUSE NOW AS WE KNOW BY THE
WAY, I&apos;M A MEMBER THE COALITION
FOR ACTION ON REMEDIATION
OF DIOXANE.
I ATTEND THEIR MEETINGS.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT SPEAKING ON BEHALF
OF THEM THOUGH.
BUT AS WE KNOW NOW, DIOXANE HAS
BEEN FOUND IN THE ALLEN CREEK
DRAIN THAT&apos;S DRAINING RIGHT
INTO THE HURON RIVER GUYS.
&gt;&gt; SO WE KNOW NOW THAT THIS THE
WATER SOURCE FOR PEOPLE IS
BEING CONTAMINATED.
&gt;&gt; SO PLEASE DO SOMETHING.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNSEL?
NO HAYNER.
THANKS, MR. MAYOR.
JUST A COUPLE OF QUICK
ANNOUNCEMENTS FOR THINGS COMING
UP AND A FEW OTHER COMMENTS.
SO I WANT TO THANK EVERYBODY
FOR ATTENDING THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN FESTIVAL THIS
WEEKEND.
IF YOU DID, IT WAS A GOOD TIME.
IT&apos;S NICE TO SEE OLD FRIENDS
AND MEET SOME NEW PEOPLE AND IT
LOOKED LIKE IT WAS GOING PRETTY
WELL DOWN THERE.
IT&apos;S ALWAYS EXCITING TO HAVE
SOME SOME STREET FESTIVALS
HAPPENING WEDNESDAY, JUNE 8TH
FROM 11:00 A.M. TO TWO P.M. AT
THE FARMER&apos;S MARKET IS A SORT
OF OPEN HOUSE, A PRESENTATION
AND COMMENT SESSION FOR ME TO
REVIEW THE IMPORTANT
INTERCHANGE.
AND SO I URGE FOLKS WHO USE THE
HIGHWAY LOOP AROUND THE CITY,
ESPECIALLY NORTH SIDERS WARD
ONE RESIDENTS TO GO DOWN THERE
AND IF YOU HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY
TO SUBMIT COMMENTS IF NOT
YOU&apos;RE WELCOME TO SEND THEM TO
ME AND I&apos;LL PASS ALONG TOMORROW
MORNING AT 10:00 A.M. IS THE
QUARTERLY CARD MEETING, THE
DIOXIN WATCHDOG GROUP MEETING
AND THEY ARE ALWAYS FULL
OF INFORMATION.
THEY&apos;RE USUALLY AT SIX P.M. BUT
THIS ONE&apos;S A QUARTERLY UPDATES
FROM DEQUEUE EPA&apos;S MEETINGS AND
SO ON.
SO I ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO TUNE
IN TO THOSE CARD MEETINGS.
THOSE CAN BE FOUND THE PROS
PLAN INPUT ENDS TOMORROW AT
MIDNIGHT AND THAT CAN BE FOUND
BY GOOGLING PROS PLAN ANN ARBOR
AND THERE&apos;S A SURVEY YOU CAN
TAKE ON THERE AND IT HAS PLENTY
OF OPEN SPACE FOR COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, WE HAD SOME
SPEAKERS HERE EARLIER WHO
REALLY POINTED OUT WHAT IS IT
THAT KIND OF THE ELEPHANT IN
THE WORLD THAT EVERY DAY IS GUN
VIOLENCE DAY FOR MOST PEOPLE IN
THE WORLD.
THE UNITED STATES IS THE
WORLD&apos;S LARGEST ARMS DEALER
OVER 40 PERCENT ALL THE SMALL
ARMS WORLDWIDE COME FROM THE
UNITED STATES.
WE GET TEN THOUSAND PIECES
OF SMALL ARMS AND 50 MILLION
ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION TO UKRAINE
IN THE LAST COUPLE OF MONTHS
ALONE WE SPEND THREE POINT
EIGHT DOLLARS BILLION IN
FUNDING TO THE STATE OF ISRAEL,
MOST OF WHICH IS RETURNED
THROUGH VARIOUS BUYBACK
PROGRAMS TO BUY SMALL ARMS AND
OTHER ARMS AND LARGE MISSILES
AND SO ON FROM THE UNITED
STATES.
THE ISRAELI DEFENSE FORCES
PRIMARY WEAPON UNTIL ABOUT A
YEAR AGO WAS M FOUR WHICH IS
THE MILITARY NOMENCLATURE FOR
THE AIHARA WITH ARMALITE TYPE
THEY AR 15 UNTIL WE COME TO
GRIPS WITH OUR NATIONAL
OBSESSION WITH PROVIDING THE
REST OF THE WORLD WITH
FIREARMS.
&gt;&gt; NOTHING IS GOING TO BE DONE
LOCALLY AND I KNOW IT&apos;S TRAGIC
TRAGIC AS TRAGIC AS THESE MASS
SHOOTINGS ARE, THEY REPRESENT A
TINY PERCENT OF THE GUN
VIOLENCE IN OUR NATION IN OUR
WORLD I&apos;M GLAD THAT THEY SERVE
TO OPEN PEOPLE&apos;S EYES TO THE
PROBLEMS THAT WE HAVE WITH
FIREARMS.
THEY CAN&apos;T REMEMBER IT.
WE NEED TO HAVE NATIONAL
SOLUTIONS TO THIS.
WE NEED TO ENCOURAGE NATIONAL
&gt;&gt; THEY DON&apos;T EVER CHANGE
SOLUTIONS TO THIS.
WITHOUT THAT FURTHER
&gt;&gt; THEY DON&apos;T EVER CHANGE
COMMUNICATION COUNCIL MEMBERS
WITHOUT THAT FURTHER
WILL DID YOU CALL ME?
COMMUNICATION COUNCIL MEMBERS
I DID.
WILL DID YOU CALL ME?
OH, OK.
I DID.
I DIDN&apos;T HEAR FIRST I WANT TO
OH, OK.
THANK STAFF.
I DIDN&apos;T HEAR FIRST I WANT TO
WE HAVE A NEW INSTRUCTION FOR
THANK STAFF.
OUR SIGN ORDINANCE WHICH
WE HAVE A NEW INSTRUCTION FOR
INCLUDES POLITICAL SIGNS.
OUR SIGN ORDINANCE WHICH
IT&apos;S REALLY A GREAT PIECE
INCLUDES POLITICAL SIGNS.
OF INSTRUCTION.
IT&apos;S REALLY A GREAT PIECE
IT&apos;S GOT DIAGRAMS ON IT AND I&apos;M
OF INSTRUCTION.
REALLY LOOKING FORWARD TO
IT&apos;S GOT DIAGRAMS ON IT AND I&apos;M
SIMILAR GRAPHICS FOR CHAPTER
REALLY LOOKING FORWARD TO
FORTY WHICH IS OUR VEGETATION
SIMILAR GRAPHICS FOR CHAPTER
ORDINANCE THAT HAS BEEN UNDER
FORTY WHICH IS OUR VEGETATION
REVIEW FOR OVER A YEAR.
ORDINANCE THAT HAS BEEN UNDER
BUT MR HAYNER, WE ARE GOING TO
REVIEW FOR OVER A YEAR.
GET THAT FOR YOUR REVIEW IN THE
BUT MR HAYNER, WE ARE GOING TO
NEXT FEW DAYS.
GET THAT FOR YOUR REVIEW IN THE
AND ONE OF THE IMPORTANT THINGS
NEXT FEW DAYS.
ABOUT CHAPTER FORTY&apos;S REVISION
AND ONE OF THE IMPORTANT THINGS
IS THAT IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
ABOUT CHAPTER FORTY&apos;S REVISION
CONSISTENT WITH TO ZERO IN OUR
IS THAT IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
VISION ZERO GOALS.
CONSISTENT WITH TO ZERO IN OUR
SECONDLY, I WOULD LIKE TO ONCE
VISION ZERO GOALS.
AGAIN RESPECTFULLY REQUEST A
SECONDLY, I WOULD LIKE TO ONCE
CLOSED SESSION FOR THE
AGAIN RESPECTFULLY REQUEST A
FOLLOWING THREE ITEMS AND
CLOSED SESSION FOR THE
POSSIBLY OTHER ISSUES THAT COME
FOLLOWING THREE ITEMS AND
NUMBER ONE GALBAN OUR LAWYERS
POSSIBLY OTHER ISSUES THAT COME
ARE ON AUTO PILOT.
NUMBER ONE GALBAN OUR LAWYERS
OUR LAWYERS ARE ADVOCATING FOR
ARE ON AUTO PILOT.
A DISCHARGE INTO FIRST
OUR LAWYERS ARE ADVOCATING FOR
SISTER LAKE WHICH IS WHAT THE
A DISCHARGE INTO FIRST
COMMUNITY BECAME VIOLENTLY
SISTER LAKE WHICH IS WHAT THE
OPPOSED TO.
COMMUNITY BECAME VIOLENTLY
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE SHOWED
OPPOSED TO.
THROUGHOUT THE PLUME AREA AND
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE SHOWED
WE VOTED DOWN THE CONSENT
THROUGHOUT THE PLUME AREA AND
JUDGMENT BUT FOR SOME REASON
WE VOTED DOWN THE CONSENT
WE&apos;RE ARGUING FOR THIS
JUDGMENT BUT FOR SOME REASON
DISCHARGE.
WE&apos;RE ARGUING FOR THIS
THEN SECONDLY, THE APRIL EIGHT
DISCHARGE.
CEASE
AND DESIST LETTER I FEEL
LIKE I&apos;VE BEEN UNDER A GAG
ORDER.
I THINK 60 DAYS IS LONG ENOUGH.
I&apos;D LIKE TO REQUEST THAT WE
HAVE A CLOSED SESSION AND AS
I&apos;VE SAID MANY TIMES, NOT
MAKING A DECISION IS A DECISION
TO DO NOTHING AND THAT IS NOT
ACCEPTABLE WITHOUT A VOTE
OF THE COUNCIL.
AND LASTLY, WE&apos;VE HAD A DATE
BREACH AND WE NEED LEGAL ADVICE
ON HOW TO HANDLE THAT AND HOW
TO RECOVER.
AND LASTLY, I&apos;D JUST LIKE TO
THANK MY CONSTITUENTS WHO HAVE
COME FORWARD AND OFFERED
ASSISTANCE WITH THE U.S.
WORKFORCE HOUSING RESOLUTION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
MEMBER BRINGS YOU THANKS ONE.
I JUST WANTED TO REMIND FOLKS
THAT THIS IS A TWO ZERO WEEK
AND SO YOU CAN FIND LOTS
OF EVENTS ON OS&apos;S
SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATIONS
WEBSITE THE CONTENT AND THEN I
ALSO WANTED TO MAKE A
CORRECTION TO THE BEST OF MY
KNOWLEDGE THE CITY IS NOT
ADVOCATING FOR DISCHARGE IN THE
FIRST SISTER LAKES WHICH IS IN
THE FIFTH WARD.
WE ARE ASKING FOR THAT PERMIT
TO BE REVIEWED BUT TO CORRECT
THE RECORD ON THAT FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM KELSO NO
SONG I THINK WE HAVE THE PUBLIC
COMMENT POINTING TO THE
SITUATION WITH OUR COUNTY
FUNDING TO OUR SOCIAL SERVICE
AGENCIES.
I WORKED CLOSELY WITH COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS AND COUNTY STAFF
AND TRYING TO COME TO A
RESOLUTION LAST WEEK AND I WAS
REALLY HEARTENED TO SEE THAT
THE COUNTY BOARD THE COUNTY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS VOTED TO
EXTEND FUNDING FOR ANOTHER SIX
MONTHS.
THE CHALLENGES TO OUR COMMUNITY
AND TO THE COUNTY TO UNDERSTAND
HOW ESSENTIAL A RAPID REHOUSING
SERVICES ARE WITH OUR HOUSING
COMMISSIONER JUST PUBLISHED A
REPORT STATING HOW WITH HOUSING
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES AND HOUSING
HELPS OUR RESIDENTS BEAT THE
ODDS OF EVICTION AND I&apos;D LIKE
TO SEE THE SUCCESS CONTINUE.
I&apos;M REALLY HEARTENED AFTER A
CONVERSATION WITH
REPRESENTATIVE FELICIA BROBECK
AND ASKING HER TO HELP
INTERVENE AND FIND A BETTER
PATH FORWARD SO THAT WE DON&apos;T
COME TO THE SITUATION EVERY SIX
MONTHS WHEN IT COMES TO FUNDING
OUR SOCIAL SERVICE AGENCIES.
I ALSO WANT TO SO I&apos;D LIKE TO
THANK COMMISSIONERS JUSTIN
HODGE SCOOCHING, ANDY LOBAR AND
FINDING A PATH FORWARD.
BUT THAT PATH IS ONLY SIX
MONTHS LONG.
I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE A BETTER
RESOLUTION IN THE NEXT SEVERAL
MONTHS.
OUR AGENCIES FISCAL YEAR ENDS
JUNE 30TH AND GETTING NOTICE
OF FUNDING WITH ONLY A COUPLE
OF WEEKS TO SPARE.
THAT LEAVES AGENCIES IN A
REALLY DIFFICULT POSITION TO
FUNDRAISE PRIVATELY.
UM, SO I WOULD I WOULD
ENCOURAGE FELLOW COUNCIL
MEMBERS TO TAKE SOME TIME AND
MEET WITH OUR HOUSING AGENCY
DIRECTORS.
THEY WERE VERY, VERY BUSY LAST
WEEK AND MAKING SURE THAT FOLKS
IN OUR COMMUNITY WERE WELL
TAKEN CARE OF .
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SORRY I FORGOT ONE MORE
THING IS THAT OK, YOU&apos;VE GOT
FIVE SECONDS.
&gt;&gt; OK, FIVE SECONDS.
TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT RESOLUTION
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR WORKING
WITH MR. DARNAY LISA JACKSON
INSTEAD OF A RESOLUTION WE&apos;VE
COME TO AN AGREEMENT TO
UNDERSTAND THAT WE CAN WORK ON
THIS INTERNALLY SO THAT THIS
DATA CAN BE AVAILABLE TO REPAK.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
SO RAHMI THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; UM I ALSO WOULD LIKE TO
STRESS THE IMPORTANCE FOR US TO
MEET AS A BOARD TO DISCUSS
KELMANN AS A BOARD.
I DON&apos;T THINK WE&apos;VE DISCUSSED
IT AT ALL AND THERE ARE
COMMUNICATIONS COMING IN ABOUT
THE VACCINE THAT&apos;S BEING FOUND
IN THE ALLEN CREEK THAT&apos;S BEING
DISCHARGED.
UM, AND I THINK WE NEED TO GET
ON ON THE SAME PAGE AND
UNDERSTAND WHAT THIS MEANS AND
WHAT CAN BE DONE.
SO I ECHO THE SENTIMENTS OF MY
COLLEAGUE ON THE OTHER END
THERE THAT IT WOULD BE GOOD TO
MEET AND DISCUSS THAT MATTER
ALSO HAS BEEN A LOT EMAIL SENT
TO US WITH GREAT ALARM ABOUT
THE CUTS TO THE FUNDING SOCIAL
SERVICES.
I&apos;D LIKE TO REMIND THE PUBLIC
AND PERHAPS THE BOARD HERE THAT
DURING THE BUDGET PROCESS I DID
BRING SEVERAL AMENDMENTS TO
INCREASE FUNDING TO THE COUNTY
TO THE TUNE OF ABOUT SEVEN
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS.
THOSE AMENDMENTS DID NOT GET
ANY SUPPORT OR THE SUPPORT IN
ORDER TO BE APPROVED.
SO WHEN I SEE THOSE EMAILS AND
AND WHAT HAPPENED WITH THE
FUNDING ON THOSE SERVICES, ALL
I CAN SAY IS I TRIED I TRIED TO
INCREASE THE FUNDING AND I
UNFORTUNATELY COULDN&apos;T GET THE
SUPPORT NEEDED TO DO THAT WITH
IT.
THANK YOU FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL COUNSEL FOR GRAND.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I THINK COUNCILMAN OUR SONG FOR
HER REALLY PERSISTENT ADVOCACY
IN TRYING TO HELP OUR SOCIAL
SERVICE AGENCIES.
YOU KNOW WHEN YOU LOSE HALF
YOUR FUNDING FOR FOR WHAT WAS
COORDINATED FUNDING AND THAT
WAS THE NEW HUMAN SERVICES
PARTNERSHIP WE KNEW THAT THAT
WE WOULDN&apos;T BE ABLE TO FUND AS
MANY BUT BUT WHAT HAPPENED WITH
OUR SAFETY NET WAS WAS STILL
UNEXPECTED AND THERE WAS A LOT
OF GREAT WORK DONE BY COUNCILOR
SUNG BY THOSE ON THE COUNTY
BOARD.
I DON&apos;T THINK I THINK IT SHOWED
THAT THE ANSWER IS NOT
NECESSARILY JUST PUTTING MORE
MONEY INTO THIS EFFORT BUT
REALLY LOOKING CLOSELY AT AT
OUR OWN LOCAL SAFETY THAT THOSE
ORGANIZATIONS THAT ARE
PROVIDING THOSE CRITICAL
SERVICES TO TO THE HOUSING
COMMISSION TO HELP PEOPLE
PREVENT EVICTION AND STAY
HOUSED.
SO I&apos;M NOT SURE THAT PUTTING
MONEY INTO THE PARTNERSHIP
WOULD WOULD HAVE RESULTED IN
WHAT WE&apos;RE HOPING TO SEE WHICH
IS REALLY TRYING TO GET THOSE
AGENCIES THAT ARE SUPPORTING
THE WORK OF OUR OF OUR HOUSING
COMMISSION AND PROVIDING A
SAFETY NET HERE IN ANN ARBOR
FUNDED.
SO I&apos;M COMMITTED TO CONTINUING
TO DO OUTREACH TO THOSE
ORGANIZATIONS WHO HAVE WHO
PROVIDED FUNDING FOR THOSE
CRITICAL SERVICES AND AND HOPE
THAT WE CAN FIND A WAY FORWARD.
ALSO JUST REMINDING EVERYONE
THAT THIS WEEK IS THE LAST WEEK
OF SCHOOL.
SO THANK YOU TO ALL OF OUR
EDUCATORS IN THE COMMUNITY AND
ALSO PLEASE BE AWARE THAT THERE
WILL BE YOUNGER PEOPLE WHO WILL
NOT BE IN SCHOOL DURING THE
DAY, YOU KNOW, HOPEFULLY MOVING
SAFELY THROUGHOUT OUR SYSTEM AS
PEDESTRIANS AND CYCLISTS AND IN
OTHER.
SO PLEASE BE AWARE OF THOSE
SMALLER PEOPLE IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
THANKS SO MUCH.
&gt;&gt; COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL.
I&apos;D LIKE TO OFFER THE FOLLOWING
NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION INTO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION.
ALEX ZETLIN, KENDEL KERNEN,
JILL ELIZABETH FUND, RICHARD
WIELAND AND FURTHER TO TO THE
ENERGY COMMISSION NOX CAMERON
AND MOESHA MCGEENEY TO THE MAIN
STREET BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT&apos;S
OWN ROGER ON EMOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CONTENT AGENDA MUBI
CATHERINE GRISWOLD&apos;S TALKING
ABOUT COUNTERPROGRAM DISCUSSION
OF THE CONCEPT OF GENDER
COUNSELOR IHR YES I WOULD LIKE
TO REMOVE WHICH ONE IS IT THE
WHOLE LANDSBOROUGH IT IS TWENTY
FIVE FOR THE DISCUSSION THE
THIRD OR RIMAWI THANK YOU LIKE
TO PAUL S.A TWENTY SEVEN
CALAMAR BRIGS I WOULD PREFER
NOT TO PROPOSE A TWENTY BUT I
BELIEVE THERE&apos;S A STAFF
INTRODUCTION THAT PROBABLY
ANSWERS THAT QUESTION SO I
DON&apos;T GET TO DO YOU HAVE A
QUESTION.
&gt;&gt; MY FIRST STAFF MR. DORNE WAS
AT CAA TWENTY YES MR.
HUTCHINSON IS AVAILABLE
.
&gt;&gt; MR. HUTCHINSON IS JOINING US
ON ZELLE.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; HI.
SORRY FOR THE DELAY.
THIS IS NICK HUTCHINSON, CITY
ENGINEER.
WE HAD A QUESTION COME IN
REGARDING TWENTY AS A RESIDENT
RAISED THE QUESTION ABOUT
WONDERING IF AS PART OF THIS
PROJECT CUTTING OAK TREES WERE
GOING TO BE REMOVED OR TRIMMED
FOR THE SIDEWALK INSTALLATION
AND IF SO, WHAT STEPS WERE
GOING TO BE TAKEN TO PREVENT
THE SPREAD OF OAK WILT?
AND OUR RESPONSE TO THAT IS
THAT THE TREES FOR THIS PROJECT
HAVE ALREADY BEEN REMOVED IN
ADVANCE OF THE SIDEWALK
CONSTRUCTION BY OUR PUBLIC
WORKS STAFF FOR ANY TREES
ACTUALLY REMOVED.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S NO CONCERN REGARDING
OAK.
WILL IT FORCE HAD TO PRUNE ANY
OAK TREES THEN THEY WOULD HAVE
APPLIED SEALANT TO EACH PRUNING
CUT TO PREVENT WILT FROM
ESTABLISHING AND THE CITY HAS
AN OAK WELL QUALIFIED ARBORIST
ON STAFF THAT ASSISTS WITH WORK
ON OAK TREES AND WITH QUILT OAK
WILT CONCERNS BAKER THANK YOU
COUNCILMAN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU COUNCILMAN
GRISWOLD.
I&apos;D LIKE TO PULL A TWENTY EIGHT
AND I&apos;M WONDERING IF WE CAN
TURN UP THE VOLUME.
&gt;&gt; DIFFICULT TO HEAR.
ALL RIGHT THANK FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON THE THAT AGENDA
ALL IN FAVOR OF THE CONSENT THE
GENERAL EXCEPTION SEE A TWENTY
FIVE 27 28 PCI I OPPOSED
TO THE
SENATE AGENDA IS APPROVED THE
EXCEPTION SEE A TWENTY FIVE
TWENTY SEVEN TWENTY EIGHT WITH
NINE COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THUS SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO SEE
A THREE C8 SEEI SEVENTEEN THAT
IS ALL TWENTY FIVE RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE A CONTRACT WITH
HOMELAND BUILDERS OF MYSHKIN
LLC DEBATE THEM SOLAR FOR THE
PURCHASE AND INSTALLATION
OF SOLAR SYSTEMS AT NINE CITY
SITES ENERGY STORAGE AND
BATTERY SYSTEMS TO CITY SITES
AND THE INSTALLATION
OF ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING
INFRASTRUCTURE AT FIVE SITES IN
THE AMOUNT OF THREE MILLION
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS MOVI
COUNCIL MEMBER ASKED MY
CUSTOMER ONLINE DISCUSSION
PLEASE THIS A25 COUNCIL MEMBER
IA I THINK WE HAVE A STAFF
INTRODUCTION.
I&apos;M SORRY THERE IS INTRODUCTION
MR. MAYOR.
WE HAVE DR. STAATS AVAILABLE
FOR TWENTY FIVE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU DR. STULTS.
ALL FOR YOU AND THANKS FOR
HAVING ME HERE AND HAPPY TO
ZERO SO FEW QUESTIONS WERE
ASKED AND I&apos;LL PUNCH THROUGH
THOSE AND PLEASE LET ME KNOW IF
YOU HAVE ANY THOUGHTS.
HOW MANY LICENSED ELECTRICIANS
DOES HOMELAND SOLAR HAVE HOME
HAS FOUR LICENSED ELECTRICIANS
ON STAFF AND WHEN NECESSARY
THEY ALSO USE SUPPORT FROM
WIEDMAN, HALEY AND HARPUR IF
THEY NEED ADDITIONAL I CAN
QUESTION HOW MANY LICENSED
ELECTRICIANS DOES NOT
MECHANICAL HAVE TEN MINUTES
OF NESSMA CHEMICALS LICENSE IS
ACTUALLY WITH HOMELAND AND HE&apos;S
THE STAFF&apos;S MASTER ELECTRICIAN
.
THANKS FOR YOUR QUESTION.
WHO HAS BEEN FOR THIS PROJECT
AND REQUEST FOR THE BED SHEET
WHICH IS NOW IN THE PACKET?
WE&apos;RE GOING TO LET THE FIRMS
BID ON THE WORK.
NINETY THREE ENERGY
CHARTERHOUSE ELEVATE AND
LOGIC&apos;S ENERGY G R AND E
HOMELAND POWER SOLAR SOUTHCOAST
INVESTMENT ABUNE A QUESTION FOR
HOMELAND&apos;S ACTUAL PROPOSAL AND
THAT IS NOW ATTACHED AND I DO
WANT TO APOLOGIZE FOR NOT
INCLUDING IT FOR THOSE WHO MAY
NOT BE FAMILIAR WITH THIS
PROCESS OR NOT HAD A CHANCE TO
REVIEW THE RESOLUTION.
I ACTUALLY PUT THIS TO ABOUT A
YEAR AND A HALF AGO AND SO THE
ORIGINAL DESIGNS THAT CAME IN
WITH THE PROPOSALS HAVE CHANGED
BECAUSE WE WORKED WITH THE
CONTRACTORS TO EVOLVE THOSE
PROPOSALS TO BE WHAT&apos;S
REPORTING TODAY.
SO THAT&apos;S ON MY PART.
I THOUGHT THAT WOULD BE SORT
OF CONFUSING TO LOOK BUT YOU
NOW HAVE THAT IN YOUR PACKET TO
SEE THEIR ORIGINAL NEXT
QUESTION WHAT ARE THE
PREVAILING WAGE RATES AT HOME
AND WE&apos;LL BE USING HOME MUST BE
IN COMPLIANCE WITH OUR
PREVAILING WAGE POLICY.
IT&apos;S REQUIRED IN THE CONTRACT
AND THEY ARE IN AGREEMENT THAT
THEY WILL BE IN FULL COMPLIANCE
WITH ALL OF THE LAWS, RELEVANT
REGULATIONS AND WITH OUR
PREVAILING WAGE RULES.
&gt;&gt; LAST SUBSTANTIVE QUESTION
WILL ANY SUBCONTRACTORS BE USED
AND IF SO, WHO?
HORN&apos;S ORIGINAL PROPOSAL THAT
YOU HAVE ACCESS TO INCLUDED?
IF ADDITIONAL CAPACITY WAS
NEEDED IT WOULD BE WITH HER
ELECTORATE SINCE THAT TIME THE
WORK HAS EVOLVED OVER THE LAST
YEAR AND A HALF AND SO THE
ORIGINAL THERE IS NO LONGER
RELEVANT.
THEY NOW HAVE STAFF ON THE TEAM
THAT ARE CAPABLE OF DOING
ELECTRICAL WORK AND THEIR FIRST
IS TO USE OUR ENERGY IF THEY
NEED ADDITIONAL CAPACITY
OUTSIDE.
AND THEN FINALLY I JUST WANT TO
REITERATE A VERY IMPORTANT
POINT THAT I KNOW ALL OF US
CARE DEEPLY ABOUT AND THAT&apos;S
MAKING SURE THAT ALL OF OUR
WORK FOLLOW STATE LAW AND STATE
POLICY.
IT STARTS WITH THE EXPECTATION
THAT EVERY CONTRACTOR YOU WORK
WITH WILL STATE LAW INCLUDING
LOSSING THAT SOLAR PANELS MUST
INSTALL BY A LICENSED
ELECTRICIAN.
IT SIMPLY IS NOT OPTIONAL.
WE TALK TO ALL OF OUR
INSTALLERS ABOUT THIS INCLUDING
QUESTIONS IN THE INTERVIEW
PROCESS REPEATEDLY EXPRESS THIS
EXPECTATION TO OUR CONTRACTORS
AND WE HAVE BEEN AND WILL
CONTINUE TO BE EXPLICIT.
WE EXPECT ALL OF OUR
CONTRACTORS TO FOLLOW STATE LAW
PERIOD.
THIS IS NON-NEGOTIABLE ON OUR
CONTRACTS AND WE HAVE THE RIGHT
WHICH I&apos;M CONFIDENT WE WILL BE
USING OF CHECKING IN DURING
CONSTRUCTION TO ENSURE THAT
ENSURE THAT OUR PROJECTS ARE
BEING DONE IN ACCORDANCE WITH
STATE LAW AND ITS REQUIREMENTS.
I JUST WANT TO REITERATE THAT
BECAUSE I THINK IT&apos;S A REALLY
IMPORTANT AND I WANTED TO SHARE
THE BUILDING INSPECTOR AND I
ARE IN FULL AGREEMENT ON THESE
POINTS.
&gt;&gt; I THANK YOU DR. STULTS
KOTSENBURG OK, THANK YOU DR.
STULTZ FOR THAT INFORMATION AND
FOR THAT VERY EMPHATIC
REITERATION OF CITY POLICY.
YOU KNOW WHEN THIS CAME FORWARD
I DID AND I DO STILL HAVE
SERIOUS RESERVATIONS ABOUT THIS
CONTRACT DUE TO FACT DUE DUE TO
THE FACT THAT THIS CONTRACT HAS
BEEN DOCUMENTED TO HAVE HAD
WORKERS WHO DO NOT HOLD
ELECTRICAL LICENSES INSTALLING
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
THIS IS WELL DOCUMENTED.
SO YOU KNOW AND I JUST WANT TO
THE LAW REQUIRING ELECTRICAL
EQUIPMENT WHICH DOESN&apos;T INCLUDE
SOLAR PANELS AND THEIR WIRES,
THE LAW REQUIRING THEM TO BE
INSTALLED START TO FINISH BY
LICENSED ELECTRICIANS EXISTS
FOR GOOD REASON.
IT EXISTS FOR THE SAFETY
OF WORKERS ON THE JOB, THE
SAFETY OF OUR BUILDINGS AND THE
PEOPLE WHO USE THEM, THE SAFETY
OF OUR FIREFIGHTERS WHO MUST
RESPOND TO FIRES OF ALL CAUSES
INCLUDING OF COURSE ELECTRICAL.
WE SAW THE MOST TRAGIC
CONSEQUENCE POSSIBLE
OF IMPROPER ELECTRICAL WORK A
FEW YEARS BACK AT LINCOLN HIGH
SCHOOL WHEN A MISSING GROUND
WIRE LED TO THE ELECTROCUTION
DEATH OF A STUDENT.
IT IS INCUMBENT ON US AS A
COUNCIL AND A CITY TO ENSURE
THAT THE ELECTRICAL WORK ON OUR
CITY BUILDINGS IS DONE
CORRECTLY TO PROTECT WORKERS AS
WELL AS THOSE WHO WILL BE IN
AND AROUND OUR BUILDINGS FOR
YEARS TO COME.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M ENCOURAGED TO HEAR
THE UNEQUIVOCAL EXPECTATION
FROM CITY STAFF THAT THIS WORK
WILL BE DONE ACCORDING TO STATE
LAW.
THAT MEANS NO ONE WHO ISN&apos;T A
LICENSED ELECTRICIAN SHOULD
TOUCH SOLAR PANEL.
I&apos;M ALSO ENCOURAGED BY
HOMELAND&apos;S REPORTED PROMISES TO
ADHERE TO THIS LAW THAT THERE&apos;S
A SAYING AMONG JOURNALISTS IF
YOUR MOTHER SAYS SHE LOVES YOU,
CHECK IT OUT.
TRUST BUT VERIFY FOLKS WILL BE
WATCHING THIS WORK.
SO I WILL BE VOTING FOR THIS
CONTRACT TONIGHT BUT SPEAKING
ONLY FOR MYSELF.
I DO VIEW THIS CONTRACT AS A
LAST CHANCE FOR HOMELAND SO
LET&apos;S MAKE SURE IT&apos;S DONE RIGHT
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL OVER
GRISWOLD.
THANK YOU FOR ANSWERING THOSE
QUESTIONS.
I FOUND THEM VERY INFORMATIVE
BUT I&apos;M TRYING TO DETERMINE
WHERE THE QUESTIONS CAME FROM
AND I DON&apos;T SEE THEM IN ECOM
AND I DON&apos;T BELIEVE I RECEIVED
A COPY TODAY IS FROM A PROCESS
STANDPOINT WHERE WE GIVEN THOSE
QUESTIONS OR DID STAFF COME UP
WITH THEM.
BUT THOSE QUESTIONS CAME IN
FROM CAPITOL PARDON ME.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S IT&apos;S MY UNDERSTANDING
THAT QUESTIONS THAT ARE
DELIVERED AT THE LAST QUESTIONS
DELIVERED QUESTIONS DELIVERED
AFTER ORDINARY SUBMISSION
OF QUESTIONS TEND TO JUST BE
DELIVERED BETWEEN COUNCIL
MEMBER AND STAFF AND THEN GET
REPORTED OUT IN THIS FASHION.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THOSE ARE
DISTRIBUTED OUT TO THE COUNCIL
AS A WHOLE IN THE PACKET.
OH OK.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE THERE
WASN&apos;T AN OVERSIGHT AND SO WHAT
YOU&apos;RE SAYING IF SOMETHING
COMES UP AFTER FOUR THIRTY ON A
COUNCIL MEETING DAY THEN WE ARE
TO JUST SEND QUESTIONS TO MR
DHONI.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT THE I
DON&apos;T BELIEVE THE TIME IS FOUR
THIRTY.
I BELIEVE THE TIME IS IN THE
MORNING AND THAT&apos;S IN THE
COUNCIL RULES.
OH OK.
AFTER TEN CLOCK WHATEVER IT
SAYS IN THE RULES I DON&apos;T KNOW
OK I JUST DIDN&apos;T KNOW WE HAD
THIS EXTRA OPTION BUT THIS IS
GREAT NEWS .
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT AN EXTRACTION IT&apos;S
THE OPTION THE RULES I WILL OK
I&apos;M VERY AWARE OF WHAT HAPPENS
UNTIL TODAY I&apos;M NOT AWARE
OF WHAT HAPPENS AFTER A.M. FOR
THAT.
THAT&apos;S WHAT I WAS QUESTIONING
MR. MAYOR.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR TONY.
TO CLARIFY FOR THE COUNCILWOMAN
IF WE DON&apos;T RECEIVE THE
QUESTIONS BY NINE THIRTY, THE
ONLY WAY FOR US TO ANSWER THEM
IS TO MAKE IT AN INTRODUCTION
FOR TONIGHT AND MAKE STAFF
AVAILABLE TO BE RESPONSIVE IF
WE DON&apos;T GET IT BY THE DEADLINE
.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL NO
MONEY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I GUESS SINCE THE DOCTORS TOLD
US HERE IN I&apos;M ALWAYS LOOKING
AT NUMBERS AND TRYING TO GET
THE MOST BUCK LOOKING AT THIS
I&apos;M LOOKING AT THE KILOWATTS
AND THE COST PER INSTALLATION
JUST SEEMS LIKE WE&apos;RE PAYING
MORE IN SOME AREAS AND WE AND
OTHERS PER KILOWATT FOR THE
INSTALLATION.
&gt;&gt; WHAT I GUESS DROVE THE
DECISIONS TO CHOOSE THESE
LOCATIONS VERSUS OTHER AREAS.
WE MIGHT HAVE SPENT THE SAME
AMOUNT OF MONEY BUT WE&apos;RE ABLE
TO HARVEST MORE ENERGY.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THANK YOU FOR THE
EXCELLENT QUESTION SO WE&apos;RE
ACTUALLY GOING TO BE BRINGING
IN OUR NEXT COUNCIL MEETING FOR
MORE SOLAR INSTALLATIONS.
BUT WHAT WE DID IS WE LOOKED AT
ALL THE CITY SITES THAT WE HAVE
AND WE IDENTIFIED THOSE THAT
HAD VIABLE SOLAR POTENTIAL AND
THAT&apos;S HOW WE STARTED WITH THIS
INITIAL LIST OF PROJECTS IN
TERMS OF WHAT&apos;S BEFORE YOU THE
COST VARIES SOMETIMES BECAUSE
OF WHAT THE STRUCTURE IS.
SO CARPORTS ARE MORE EXPENSIVE
TO BUILD BECAUSE YOU HAVE TO
PUT IN ALL THAT STEEL VERSUS
PUTTING IT ON THE ROOF.
BUT IN SOME OF THE SITES
CARPORTS WHERE THE THING THAT
MADE THE MOST SENSE TO
CAPITALIZE ON THE THE MAXIMUM
AMOUNT OF PRODUCTION WHEN YOU
LOOK ACROSS THIS WHOLE SUITE
OF PROJECTS IT&apos;S ACTUALLY JUST
UNDER TWO DOLLARS PER WATT
WHICH IS A REALLY GOOD KIND
OF PRICE POINT WHEN YOU FACTOR
IN SOME OF THE OTHER ELEMENTS
THAT WE HAVE.
PRICES VARY BASED ON THE SIZE
IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF THE ROOF
WHETHER WE HAVE TO DO A CAR OR
WHETHER WE&apos;RE DOING GROUND
MOUNT AND SO THOSE ALL KIND
OF FACTOR INTO THE DESIGN.
BUT WE DID TRY TO BE VERY
INTENTIONAL ABOUT DOING DESIGNS
THAT FIT ESTHETIC AND THE USES
OF THE DIFFERENT SITES.
SO WE DIDN&apos;T JEOPARDIZE, FOR
EXAMPLE, PLACE STRUCTURES THAT
WE MIGHT HAVE IN A CERTAIN AREA
.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I GUESS IT&apos;S YET ANOTHER
QUESTION SINCE WE&apos;RE HERE A
SHORTAGE AND I MIGHT AS WELL
ASK ABOUT THESE CHARGERS.
I KNOW THERE&apos;S BEEN A LOT
OF COMMUNITY TALK ABOUT HOW
MANY OF THEM ARE BROKEN OR
FAILED IN MANY OF THE CASES NOT
THE ONES I THINK YOU KNOW,
YOU&apos;RE RESPONSIBLE FOR BUT IN
OTHER AREAS OF THE TOWN
WE&apos;RE
BUYING THESE OBVIOUSLY THEN
WE&apos;RE NOT LEASING THESE
CHARGERS AND I GUESS WE MAKE
SURE THAT THOSE ARE OPERATIONAL
.
YES, THIS IS ACTUALLY THIS
CONTRACT THE CHARGERS WERE
BUYING THE CHARGERS.
YOU&apos;LL SEE THAT AT THE NEXT
COUNCIL MEETING BECAUSE WE HAVE
A BETTER CONTRACT RIGHT FOR THE
STATE TO BUY THE CHARGERS
OUTRIGHT.
THEY&apos;RE DOING ALL THE
INSTALLATION WORK SO THE
ELECTRICAL AND WE WILL OWN
THOSE CHARGERS THAT WILL BE IN
ANY ASSET OF OUR CITIES SO SO
THESE EIGHT THOUSAND DOLLARS
PER CHARGERS JUST FOR THE
INSTALLATION?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, IT&apos;S THE INSTALLATION
OF THE ELECTRICAL DEVICE BEHIND
THE SCENE TO GET THEM READY.
AND THEN WHERE WILL WE FIND THE
CHARGERS?
OK, THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; OBVIOUSLY A TWENTY FIVE
POSED IT IS APPROVED NINE
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTING IN THE AFFIRMATIVE TO
SATISFY THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT S.A.
&gt;&gt; TWENTY SEVEN RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE AMENDMENT TWO TO
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
WITH MANAGEMENT PARTNERS INC.
DEBA MANAGEMENT PARTNERS FOR
INTERIM HUMAN SERVICES AND
LABOR RELATIONS DIRECTOR IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN MALAWI
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
DISCUSSION THESE 27 COUNCIL
MEMBER MALAWI THANK YOU.
YES, THIS QUESTION IS FOR A
CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND STAFF
WHEN THIS WAS FIRST BROUGHT TO
US IT WAS IN RESPONSE TO A
PRETTY UNFORTUNATE TIMELY
SITUATION AND WE NEEDED TO FILL
THE POSITION.
THIS IS A CONTINUATION FROM
WHAT I UNDERSTAND AND PLEASE
CORRECT ME IF I&apos;M WRONG OF OUR
PRIOR RELATIONS THIS OUTSIDE
FIRM TO HANDLE THE
RESPONSIBILITIES AND ROLES THIS
IS A AN ISSUE TO SAY THE LEAST
FOR FOR FOR THIS ORGANIZATION
FOR MANY YEARS WE&apos;VE TALKED
ABOUT DCI AND LEADING OUR
EFFORTS THERE.
JUST AGAIN, HOW CONTRACT WORKS
WITH THOSE THOSE POLICY THAT WE
SET FORTH AND GO LONG THIS IS
GOING TO BE FARMED OUT BEFORE
WE HAVE YOU KNOW, FULL TIME
CITY EMPLOYEE WITH THE
QUALIFICATION NEEDED TO FILL
THIS POSITION.
&gt;&gt; THIS PARTICULAR EXTENSION IS
TO ALLOW US TO GET OVER THE
FINISH LINE.
I INTERVIEWED A FINALIST FOR
THE H.R. DIRECTOR THIS
AFTERNOON.
I&apos;M INTERVIEWING THE SECOND
FINALIST TOMORROW AFTERNOON.
I HAVE ONE IN THE WINGS IF IT
DOESN&apos;T WORK OUT SO THE H.R.
DIRECTOR&apos;S POSITION DECISION
SHOULD BE MADE WITHIN THE NEXT
THREE OR FOUR DAYS AND NOT
KNOWING EXACTLY WHO WE WERE
GOING TO PICK OR WHAT KIND
OF NOTICE THEY WOULD NEED TO
GIVE OR WORKING.
I NEEDED A CONTRACT TO MAKE
SURE I GOT SOMEBODY HERE UNTIL
THE PERSON CAN GET ON BOARD
WITH REGARDS TO THE DIRECTOR
OF ORGANIZATIONAL EQUITY, I
BELIEVE THAT POSITION CLOSES
THIS FRIDAY AND THE SERVICE
AREA ADMINISTRATOR POSITION
CLOSES ON MONDAY.
I MAY HAVE THOSE TWO HOURS BUT
WE ARE NEARING THE END OF ALL
OF THESE SEARCHES HOPEFULLY AND
THEN WE CAN FILL OUT THE STAFF
THINKS THAT THESE THINGS ARE
HAPPENING IN SUCH SHORT ORDER
FROM NOW.
SO IT&apos;S GOOD NEWS THINGS
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED TWENTY EIGHT IS PART
OF THIS YEAR.
TWENTY SEVEN IS APPROVED SEE A
TWENTY EIGHT RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE A CONTRACT WITH PUBLIC
SERVICE CONSULTANTS INC FOR
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SERVICES.
THE AMOUNT OF NINETY NINE
THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED EIGHTEEN
DOLLARS MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
GRISWOLD&apos;S BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIAN DISCUSSION PLEASE GIVE
TWENTY EIGHT KOTSENBURG
GRISWOLD.
&gt;&gt; I JUST HAD A QUESTION MAINLY
SO THAT WE CAN DISCUSS THIS
WITH THE VIEWING PUBLIC.
WE DID NOT CHOOSE A LOCAL FIRM
AND I&apos;M SURE THE DECISION
PROCESS WAS LEGITIMATE.
I BELIEVE SOME PEOPLE WILL BE
DISAPPOINTED THAT WE DIDN&apos;T
CHOOSE A LOCAL ORGANIZATION.
I WAS JUST WONDERING IF STAFF
COULD COMMENT ON THAT MR.
PORTIERES AVAILABLE FOR
QUESTIONS ON THIS ITEM.
THANK YOU, MR. TONY COX.
NO GRISWOLD WE CHOSE THE MOST
QUALIFIED FIRM IN THE RFP
PROCESS AND THAT WAS REGARDLESS
OF WHETHER THE FIRM WAS LOCAL
OR NOT.
I WILL SAY THAT PUBLIC SECTOR
CONSULTANTS IS BASED OUT
OF LANSING WHICH COMPARED TO
MOST OF OUR CONTRACTORS IS
PRETTY LOCAL AND THEY HAVE A
LOT FAMILIARITY WITH DOING THIS
TYPE OF WORK IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
SO WE WERE VERY IMPRESSED WITH
THEIR PRESENTATION AND
RECOMMENDED THEM BECAUSE THEY
WERE MOST HIGHLY QUALIFIED.
OH OK.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I APPRECIATE THAT AND I&apos;M NOT
QUESTIONING THE PROCESS.
I JUST THOUGHT IT WOULD BE
HELPFUL TO AT LEAST HAVE A
PUBLIC STATEMENT REGARDING
THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO THANKS AGAIN FOR OUR
DISCUSSION.
WELL, FEVRE POST SEASON TWENTY
EIGHT IS APPROVED.
YOU NOW HAVE BEFORE US THE
REGULAR SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF MAY 16 20 22.
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THESE MINUTES BEFORE A COUNCIL
MEMBER SONG SECONDED BY COUNCIL
BEGAN DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES
AFTER POSED IT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S OUR APPROVED SEABOURNE
AND AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
ZONING OF ONE POINT NINE ACRES
PERCENT GWP TOWNSHIP DISTRICT
TO ARBON A SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT THREE ZERO
NINE ZERO GATTI&apos;S ROMEVA MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER AS WELL
TAKING MY COUNT SUMMER SONG
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C1 OFTER
POST IT&apos;S APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS ONE RESOLUTION TO
RECOMMEND APPROVAL ISSUANCE
OF NEW FIVE YEAR CLASSING
LIQUOR LICENSES IN THE CITY
THEN ARE REMOVED BY COUNCIL PER
SECOND.
THE COUNCIL BRINGS DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC ONE COUNCIL MEMBER
ROLLI YOU I JUST WANT WE CAN
SEE ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY
DEMANDS THAT THESE LICENSES
WILL BE GIVEN THE COMMODITY
PRICES BOTTLES AND JUST NOT
TAKE AN EXTENSIVE KNOCK ON THE
COMMUNITY PLEASE.
BUT GOT TO KNOW WHAT
THE WORD
HERE FROM THE CLERK&apos;S OFFICE.
SURE SHE MAY I SPEAK TO PART
OF THE APPLICATION PROCESS
INCLUDED A SUSTAINABLE
STATEMENT SO EACH OF THE ALL
OF THE APPLICANTS WHO APPLIED
SUBMITTED THAT INFORMATION AS
PART OF THE APPLICATION THAT
ALLOWS PUBLIC DIGNITY FOR AND
I&apos;M GOING TO BE IN ANY METRICS
HERE AND IT&apos;S GOING TO BE DONE
TO ENSURE THAT THOSE WHO ARE
ACTUALLY CARRIED OUT A MAJOR
STATEMENTS TO ACTUALLY GO IN
AND MEASURES THE QUESTION WITH
RESPECT TO THE ENFORCEMENT
OF THAT COMMITTEE MEMBER
COUNCIL WILL GRANT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU AND I DON&apos;T THINK
THERE ARE PLANS FOR ENFORCEMENT
PERSONNEL BUT PART OF THE
SCORING OF SUSTAINABILITY
WASN&apos;T JUST BASED ON FUTURE
PLANS BUT BASED ON WHAT THESE
ORGANIZATIONS WERE ALREADY
PUTTING INTO PRACTICE.
&gt;&gt; SO IT UM WHAT I CAN GIVE AN
EXAMPLE THE BUSINESS THAT AT SW
HAS A FARM IN DETROIT BUT THEY
YOU THEY GROW A LOT OF THAT
PRODUCE THAT THEY USE IN THEIR
RESTAURANTS SO YOU KNOW AND
SOMEONE THAT IS AS ROBUST IN
THEIR IN THEIR RESPONSES BUT
THIS IS A SUSTAINABILITY WAS A
SIGNIFICANT PART OF THIS
GROWING PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; SO IT IT WASN&apos;T AN
AFTERTHOUGHT.
MY
ANNOUNCING THESE THESE ARE
ACTUALLY GOING TO BE A
BUSINESSES AND PEOPLE ARE THOSE
ARE THE FOLKS THAT SOMETHING
LIKE THIS SHOULD HAVE SHOULD BE
KNOWLEDGE THAT THAT&apos;S NOT MY
LAW.
SO IT&apos;S JUST SOME FEEDBACK BUT
IT&apos;S ONLY GOING TO BE TEN YEARS
CANCER FREE.
&gt;&gt; NELSON, A RESIDENT, BROUGHT
TO MY ATTENTION THAT ONE
OF THESE LOCATIONS THE LOCATION
ON THE LAST STADIUM IS LIKE A
GAMING STORE.
IT&apos;S NOT IT&apos;S NOT A PLACE THAT
SERVES FOOD.
MAYBE I&apos;M CONFUSED ABOUT THAT
OR MAYBE HE WAS CONFUSED ABOUT
THAT.
I I JUST WANTED TO ASK IS THERE
A STAFF MEMBER TO RESPOND TO
THAT MR. MAYOR, I CAN RESPOND.
UM, YES THAT IS CORRECT.
ONE OF THE WE RECEIVED TEN
APPLICATIONS AND WE THE
COMMITTEE CHOSE TO RECOMMEND
EIGHT FOR THE AGENTS.
WE HAD EIGHT AVAILABLE LICENSES
AND THE I DON&apos;T RECALL THE NAME
OF THE BUSINESS BUT THE GAMING
STORE ON STADIUM IS LIKE A
PLACE WHERE PEOPLE GO TO PLAY
ROLE PLAYING TYPE GAMES.
OK, THANK YOU
COUNSELOR SONG
THINK SO THE COMMITTEE MEMBERS
MYSELF COUNCIL MEMBER QUIZ
WORLD COUNCIL MEMBER WE SUGGEST
COUNCIL MEMBER AND THIS WAS I
THINK I REALLY CAREFUL
CONSIDERATION THE APPROVAL PAC
BUSINESS CAN YOU AND I I WAS
REALLY PLEASED TO SEE TAILERS
WAS AWARDED ONE.
UM THERE IS ALSO A BUSINESS
THAT WAS CONSIDERED THAT WAS
STARTED BY ANOTHER BIPAC
FOUNDER HERE IN TOWN BUT I
THINK THE THE IMPETUS WAS
REALLY TO LOOK FOR LICENSES
THAT WOULDN&apos;T WORK OUTSIDE THE
BOUNDARIES WAS A PREFERENCE AND
HAVE A STRONG STATEMENT ON
SUSTAINABILITY INCLUDING ONE
APPLICANT STATED THAT THEY
WOULD PAY FOR THEIR OWN
COMPOSTING SERVICE.
SO I MEAN THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S PRETTY
ADMIRABLE.
THAT&apos;S A REALLY THAT&apos;S A HIGH
INVESTMENT TO MAKE.
AND SHOULD FOLKS WHO WERE NOT
ABLE TO SECURE A LICENSE IN
THIS PROCESS ARE STILL IN THE
MARKET FOR LICENSES?
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF PROCESSES
STILL AVAILABLE TO THEM
ALTHOUGH THIS COMES UP EVERY
TEN YEARS DEPENDING ON OUR
CITIES POPULATION GROWTH.
I THINK THIS WAS A REALLY
CAREFULLY CONSIDERED PROCESS
WITH STRONGLY LEANING AGAIN
AGAIN ON SUSTAINABILITY.
I THINK COUNCIL MEMBER LISA
ESPECIALLY LEANED HARD ON THAT
AND I REALLY APPRECIATE HER
EXPERIENCE COMING FROM I&apos;M
PRETTY SURE SHE&apos;S ON AN
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION.
IS SHE NOT?
&gt;&gt; YES.
AS WELL AS COUNCIL MEMBER AS
WELL.
SO HAVING THOSE HAVING TWO
COUNCIL MEMBERS ON
ENVIRONMENTAL REALLY SPOKE TO
HAVE I THINK THE APPROACH WAS
WAS FAIRLY CONSIDERED.
&gt;&gt; CARL ZIMMER GRANT, THANK
YOU.
I NOT TAKE A MINUTE TO THANK
STAFF.
I KNOW THAT THIS PROCESS WAS
DONE SO WELL THAT STAFF FROM
THE CLERK&apos;S OFFICE WILL
RECOGNIZED BY THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR FOR THEIR
EXCELLENT WORK IN RETHINKING
THIS PROCESS.
IT WENT INCREDIBLY SMOOTHLY
WITH THE COMMITTEE.
WE GOT TO HEAR FROM LOCAL
BUSINESS OWNERS, THE TWO
BUSINESSES THAT APPLIED THAT
DID NOT GET THESE LICENSES ARE
ELIGIBLE FOR THE LICENSES
WITHIN THE DIVA SO WELL MORE
EXPENSIVE CERTAINLY NOT AS
EXPENSIVE IF ONE WERE TO HAVE
TO PURCHASE THE LICENSE OUTSIDE
OF THE DISTRICT.
WE REALLY WERE TRYING TO GET
NEW TYPES OF BUSINESSES.
SO THE GAMING BUSINESS IS A
GOOD EXAMPLE OF THAT THAT IT&apos;S
NOT YOUR TYPICAL BUSINESS THAT
YOU MIGHT SEE GETTING A LIQUOR
LICENSE AND WE WANTED TO
ENCOURAGE NEW IDEAS.
WE WANTED TO ENCOURAGE, YOU
KNOW, BUSINESSES THAT THAT
HAPPEN IN NEIGHBORHOODS AND
THAT CAN HELP AND ENHANCE THE
QUALITY OF LIFE THROUGHOUT THE
CITY.
SO THIS PROCESS THAT TO THAT AS
WELL AS THE, YOU KNOW, STRONG
POINTS FOR SUSTAINABILITY, I
THINK IT WAS IT JUST A REALLY
TERRIFIC PROCESS.
YOU KNOW, WE WE HAD TEN
APPLICANTS AND THERE WAS REAL
CONSENSUS AROUND THE EIGHT THAT
THAT WERE SELECTED AND AND JUST
CONGRATULATIONS TO THOSE
BUSINESSES.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M GLAD THAT WE WERE ABLE
TO HELP DO SOMETHING ALONG THE
LINES OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
THAT CAN HOPEFULLY HELP SOME
OF THESE SMALL LOCAL BUSINESSES
GET UP AND RUNNING AND AND BE
SUSTAINED IN OUR CITY COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; BRENER THANK YOU, MR. MAYOR.
&gt;&gt; SORRY FOR THE TWO WHO DIDN&apos;T
DIDN&apos;T GET IT BUT I THINK IT
WAS I MEAN SINCE I SERVED ON
THIS BOARD FOR A BIT THE NOTION
THAT THERE ARE OTHER
OPPORTUNITIES FOR LEASES TO BE
AVAILABLE ESPECIALLY LIKE A
LICENSE I THINK WAS AN
APPROPRIATE THING TO CONSIDER.
AND YOU KNOW THE TRUTH ROUND
THE CLASS C LICENSE IS THAT NOT
ALL SMALL BUSINESSES MAKE IT
AND SO THESE ARE TRANSFER FULLY
TRANSFERABLE LICENSES UNLIKE
ADADO DISTRICT LICENSE.
AND SO IF UNFORTUNATELY SOME
OF THESE PEOPLE DON&apos;T MAKE IT,
I THINK THEY COULD WEIGH IN ON
THE NOTION THERE&apos;S PROCESS.
BUT I BELIEVE THAT THESE
LICENSES CAN BE SOLD SO YOU
KNOW, YOU DON&apos;T HAVE TO BE A
FOOD SERVICE PROVIDER TO OWN
ONE OF THESE.
I DON&apos;T KNOW.
I THINK IT&apos;S I THINK IT WAS A
REASONABLE METHODS WERE USED
AND YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S NICE THAT
THE OTHER FOLKS WHO DID MAKE
THOSE INVESTMENTS IN THE DDA
HAVE AN OPTION TO TO GET A
LIQUOR LICENSE.
SO I&apos;M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS
COUNCIL.
VARELLI YEAH.
UM, WELL, EVEN GETTING A DEA
LICENSE IS STILL GOING TO COST
YOU THIRTY THOUSAND DOLLARS AN
AVERAGE CLASSY LIQUOR LICENSE
IS AROUND EIGHTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS.
SO THIS WAS A MARKET VALUE
OF SIX HUNDRED SIX HUNDRED AND
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS AND
CLASSY LIQUOR LICENSE THAT WERE
THAT WERE APPROVED HERE
TONIGHT.
I DON&apos;T THINK WE GOT A GOOD
ENOUGH DEAL TO BE HONEST.
I THINK WE SHOULD HAVE HAD A
TOUGH NEGOTIATIONS OF SORTS.
&gt;&gt; I JUST DON&apos;T THINK THAT WE
REALLY GOT THE MOST OUT
OF THIS.
UM, I WOULD LIKE TO SEE OTHER
THINGS DONE.
UH, AT THE VERY LEAST AUCTION
THEM OFF AND PUT THAT MONEY IN
THE OVERSIZE BUDGET I THINK
WOULD HAVE GOTTEN THIS MORE UH
THE PUBLIC BENEFIT AND PUBLIC
INTEREST.
UH, I WILL BE SUPPORTING THIS
BIRGERSSON WE DON&apos;T COLLABORATE
AND YOU DON&apos;T TALK WITH OTHERS.
YOU END UP WITH A PRODUCT
THAT&apos;S I THINK NOT AS GOOD AS
IT POSSIBLY COULD BE IN THE END
.
BUT UM I APPRECIATE THE WORK
THAT WE&apos;RE INVOLVED IN THIS BUT
I JUST THINK WE SOLD OURSELVES
SHORT WHEN IT COMES TO IT.
IS IT JUST TO RESPOND TO MR.
COUNCIL MEMBER HANAN QUESTION
THE APPLICANT DOES HAVE TO USE
THE LICENSE.
THEY CAN&apos;T SELL IT AND IF THEY
DON&apos;T OPERATE FOR THREE YEARS
OR GET THE BUSINESS UP AND
RUNNING AND AND UTILIZE THE
LICENSE, IT WILL REVERT BACK TO
THE CITY.
SO THEY DON&apos;T WE&apos;RE NOT ISSUING
IT TO THAT THEY COULD SIMPLY
TURN AROUND AND SELL IT AND
THAT REVERSION PROCESS AND IT
BECOMES THE CITY&apos;S
RESPONSIBILITY TO RE OPEN A
POOL OF NEW APPLICATIONS OR
THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
&gt;&gt; IT WOULD GO BACK INTO OUR
POOL OF QUOTA LICENSES AND THE
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
LICENSES THAT WE HAVE CAN&apos;T BE
ISSUED AND IF WE HAVE ANY QUOTA
LICENSES AVAILABLE SO THE QUOTA
LICENSES HAVE TO BE ISSUED
FIRST OR WE DON&apos;T HAVE THE
OPTION IN THE DOWNTOWN TO
CONTINUE TO ISSUE THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT LICENSES.
SO IT&apos;S NOT THERE IT&apos;S NOT THE
OPEN MARKET GAME THAT IT USED
TO BE FOR THESE TYPES
OF LICENSES ARE USED TO BE YOU
COULD JUST TURN AROUND, YOU
KNOW, LIKE IF YOU WERE GOING
OUT OF BUSINESS IT BECAME STATE
OF THE BUSINESS YOU COULD SELL
IT, YOU KNOW, BUT THAT&apos;S NOT
THE CASE WITH THESE AFTER THREE
YEARS THE APPLICANT COULD SELL
IT OK?
IT BECOMES THEIR LICENSE.
THEY JUST CAN&apos;T ACQUIRE IT
SIMPLY FOR THE PURPOSE
OF SELLING IT.
&gt;&gt; OK, YEAH.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
KOTSENBURG GRISWOLD.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK THANKS
DAVE.
&gt;&gt; AND IF THERE ARE SOME
PERCEIVED SHORTCOMINGS IN THE
PROCESS THEN I THINK COUNSEL
WOULD TAKE RESPONSIBILITY
BECAUSE STAFF DID EXACTLY WHAT
WE ASKED THEM TO DO AND I&apos;M NOT
EVEN ADMITTING THAT IT WERE ANY
BUT ANY SHORTCOMINGS.
BUT IF YOU PERCEIVE SOME I JUST
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT IT WAS
NOT A SHORTCOMING OF STAFF IN
ANY THINKS FURTHERED
COUNTERASSAULT.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO SPEAK TO THE
PRICING ERIC MR. BEAUDRY, CAN
YOU SPEAK TO THE PRICING AND
WHY WE PUT AT THE PRICE THAT WE
HAVE FOR THESE LICENSES IN
TERMS OF THE FEE FOR THE
LICENSE SO THE CITY ONLY
CHARGES WHAT IS A BEST ESTIMATE
OF THE ACTUAL COSTS IT TAKES US
TO PROCESS SO WE HAVE A SET FEE
FOR ANY LIQUOR LICENSE WHETHER
THAT&apos;S A DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT LICENSE OR A NEW QUOTA
LICENSE AND WE CURRENTLY CHARGE
SIX HUNDRED DOLLARS.
THE STATE SETS A DIFFERENT FEE
SCHEDULE.
THEY HAVE AN ANNUAL RENEWAL FOR
ALL LICENSES INCLUDING QUOTA
LICENSES AS WELL AS THE DEA
LICENSES AND THEN THEY DO
CHARGE THAT TWENTY THOUSAND
DOLLAR FEE FOR THE LICENSE AND
THAT WAS SPECIFICALLY WHEN THAT
LAW PASSED TO GENERATE DOWNTOWN
BUSINESS.
THEY DON&apos;T CHARGE THAT FOR A
QUARTER LICENSE.
I BELIEVE THEY&apos;RE THEIR INITIAL
FEE IS SIMILAR TO THE CITIES IN
TERMS OF THE ANNUAL COST OF A
QUOTE LICENSE AND THEN WE ALSO
DO AN ANNUAL REVIEW FOR FOLKS
WHO REDO THEIR LICENSES AND
THAT INCLUDES REVIEWING IF
THERE HAVE BEEN POLICE
INCIDENCES OR IF THERE ARE ANY
OUTSTANDING TAXES FROM THAT
PARTICULAR BUSINESS.
SO THERE IS A PROCESS SHOULD
THESE BUSINESSES EITHER NOT BE
ABLE TO COME TO FRUITION AND
USER LICENSE OR SHOULD THEY ARE
A NUISANCE IN OUR COMMUNITY?
SO THERE IS A REVIEW PROCESS
THAT COMES UP ANNUALLY, IS THAT
CORRECT?
&gt;&gt; YES.
ALL ON PREMISE LICENSES WHICH
IS ANY LICENSE WHERE THE
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ARE
CONSUMED ON PREMISE WE DO AN
ANNUAL RENEWAL SO EACH YOU
KNOW, RESTAURANTS, BARS, EVEN
THE CLUB LICENSES AT THE
THEATERS THEY ALL SUBMIT FOR AN
ANNUAL RENEWAL AND SO POLICE
FIRE THE BUILDING INSPECTOR,
THE CITY ATTORNEY, THE
TREASURER ALL REVIEW ALL OF THE
ON PREMISE LICENSES ANNUALLY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR OPPOSED.
&gt;&gt; IT IS APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE TO FORCE THE CLERK&apos;S
PART COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS
AND REFERRALS.
WE HAVE A MOTION WE HAVE TO
APPROVE THE CLERK&apos;S DEPARTMENT
VISCOUNTS NO HAYNER SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER GRANT DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF THE CLERK&apos;S SUPPORT
OFFICER POST.
IT IS APPROVED DO HAVE
COMMUNICATION TODAY FROM OUR
CITY ATTORNEY
.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I JUST WANT TO TAKE TWO MINUTES
OF YOUR TIME.
I AM ENERGIZED AND I WELCOME
ANY OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS THE
GOVERNMENT LITIGATION WITH THE
COUNCIL TO THE EXTENT THERE WAS
ANY SUGGESTION OF COMPLACENCY
FROM THE CITY ATTORNEY&apos;S
OFFICE, I&apos;D LIKE TO COUNTER
THAT.
THAT IS ABSOLUTELY NOT TRUE.
WE ARE RESIDENTS OF THE CITY
ISSUES THAT ARE IMPORTANT TO
THE CITY ARE IMPORTANT TO US.
WE ADVOCATE DILIGENTLY ON
BEHALF OF THE CITY BUT WE ARE
LAWYERS AND WE MUST DO SO
WITHIN THE CONFINES OF THE LAW
AND PROCEDURES OF THE COURT.
BUT WITHIN THOSE CONFINES WE
HAVE RECENTLY ADVOCATED ON
BEHALF OF THE CITY WE HAVE
RECENTLY JUST LAST WEEK FILED A
MOTION IN WASHTENAW COUNTY
CIRCUIT.
IT&apos;S A PUBLIC DOCUMENT TO
ENFORCE JUDGE ORDER AGAINST
GELMAN AND TO ASK GELMAN TO
SHOW CAUSE WHY IT IS NOT
IMPLEMENTING THE CHANGES THAT
WERE ORDERED.
SO WITH THAT I&apos;D LIKE TO SAY I
WELCOME QUESTIONS A CLOSED
SESSION, WHATEVER COUNSEL NEEDS
TO EDUCATE ITSELF ON THE ISSUE.
BUT REST ASSURED WE ARE
ADVOCATING DILIGENTLY.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO BECOME A GENERAL
TIME PUBLIC GENERAL TIME IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCILOR
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO
SPEAKER PUBLIC.
I&apos;M A GENERAL TIME ONE NEED TO
SIGN UP IN ADVANCE.
SPEAKERS WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
THE TIME YOU MAY HAVE ONLY ONE
PERSON SPEAKING TO TIME.
&gt;&gt; OUR CLERK IF YOU&apos;RE ONLINE
WILL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS REMAINING AND A CLERK
OR OUR TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY
YOU WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
.
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR IS ANYONE
WHO&apos;D LIKE TO SPEAK TO PUBLIC
COMMENT PLEASE.
THANK YOU FOR ADDRESSING ME AT
PLEASE EXCUSE I DID NOT IMPLY
OR MEAN TO SAY IN ANY WAY THAT
THE CITY ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE WAS
NOT DOING ITS JOB.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SAYING THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL HAS AN OBLIGATION TO
CONSIDER THIS VERY SIGNIFICANT
ISSUE AND NOT JUST LEAVE IT TO
YOUR COMPETENT HANDS BUT YOU
HAVE THE OBLIGATION TO HAVE A
HIGHER LEVEL OF OVERSIGHT THAN
WHAT WE&apos;VE SEEN SO FAR.
ONE OF THE THING I HAVE TO SAY
I&apos;LL TELL YOU I&apos;M REALLY I WAS
DRIVING DOWN BOARDWALK THE
OTHER DAY AND I SEE IN FRONT
OF OXFORD PROPERTIES DEAD END
STREET WHERE THERE IS ALREADY A
SIDEWALK ON THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE STREET, A BRAND NEW
QUARTER MILE OF CEMENT SIDEWALK
TO YOUR BIGGEST DONOR.
I LIVE ON ROSEWOOD AND WE&apos;RE
HARPIST AND AND A LOT OF OTHER
SIDE STREETS THERE THAT COULD
REALLY DESPERATELY USE BOTH
SIDEWALKS AND REPAVING.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S A LOT OF STREETS IN
ANN ARBOR THAT COULD USE THAT.
&gt;&gt; AND WHY IS IT THAT YOU&apos;RE NO
.
ONE DONOR OXFORD PROPERTIES WHO
OWNS TWANT PERCENT OF DC ONE
JUST AFTER YOU PASSED ONE GETS
THIS BRAND NEW QUARTER MILE THE
WHAT I ENJOY I ASK YOU GO DRIVE
DOWN THERE.
IT&apos;S NOT ONLY IS IT A DEAD END,
I KNOW THAT JUSTIFICATION WAS
THAT THERE&apos;S A PUBLIC SCHOOL
PRISK WILL THERE.
&gt;&gt; WELL THAT&apos;S NONSENSE BECAUSE
NO ONE WALKS TO THAT PRESCHOOL
BECAUSE IT&apos;S THE END OF A
DEAD END WHERE THE BUSSES ARE
GOING DOWN TO THE THE BUS BAR
AND NOT ONLY THAT, THE SIDEWALK
RIGHT NOW DOES NOT GO ALL THE
WAY DOWN THERE.
&gt;&gt; IT TURNS LEFT AND MAKES A
LEFT TURN AND CROSSES THE
STREET TO GO TO THE OTHER
SIDEWALK WHICH IS NOT USED.
I&apos;M ON THAT AREA ALL THE TIME
BECAUSE I LIVE IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD NO ONE THAT&apos;S NOT
A PEDESTRIAN THOROUGHFARE.
SO AND I ASKED MR. DE HONY
ANOTHER QUESTION WHICH IS WHY
IS ROSEWOOD&apos;S STREET AND THE
COMMERCIAL AREA I MEAN I HATE
TO ADVOCATE FOR MY OWN MY OWN
STREET, YOU KNOW, BUT THE
PROBLEM IS THAT WHO&apos;S GOING TO
DO IT BECAUSE IT JUST IS
GETTING OUT OF CONTROL.
SO ROSEWOOD&apos;S STREET AND HARP&apos;S
AND THESE OTHER LITTLE SIDE
STREETS JUST JUST GET IGNORED.
ROSEWOOD STREET ON THE
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT EIGHT
HUNDRED FEET FROM S INDUSTRY TO
THE RIGHT TO THE RESIDENTIAL
AREA IS GOING TO BE REPAID
ACCORDING TO THE CITY&apos;S
SCHEDULE WHEREAS FROM THAT SPOT
FORWARD TO TO PAY THE PACKARD
WHICH IS A ZERO ON YOUR SCALE
THAT&apos;S GETTING NOTHING SO YOUR
PRIORITIES ARE NOT FOR
NEIGHBORHOODS, THEY&apos;RE FOR YOUR
DONORS AND THAT&apos;S BECOME REAL
CLEAR AND IT&apos;S VERY, VERY
DISAPPOINTING THAT OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS SUFFER.
THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN IN ANN
ARBOR FOR HOWEVER MANY YEARS
AND YOUR BRAND NEW FRIEND WHO&apos;S
GIVING YOU ALL THIS MONEY FOR
YOUR CAMPAIGNS, HE GETS THAT
SIDEWALK.
WELL, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
.
HELLO, MY NAME&apos;S ABDOUL.
I&apos;M A STUDENT THE UNIVERSITY
I&apos;M HERE TO TALK ABOUT THIS ONE
JUST WANTED TO GIVE MY
SUPPORTIVE COMMENTS TO DC.
I THINK IT&apos;S GREAT ANN ARBOR
HAS A SEVERE HOUSING SHORTAGE
AS I&apos;M SURE SOME OF YOU KNOW
AND IN ORDER TO SOLVE A SEVERE
HOUSING SHORTAGE WE NEED TO
BUILD MORE HOUSING SO CITY
PLANNERS HAVE HELPED AND
WELCOMING ENGAGEMENT TO FIGURE
OUT WHAT EXACTLY SHOULD WE MAKE
RTC ONE ZONING DISTRICT LIKE
THEY FOUND A GOOD SOLUTION AND
UPCOMING THE NEXT SPOT I THAT
STADIUM WHICH I THINK IS A
GREAT SPOT TO PUT A LOT
OF TRANSIT ORIENTED HOUSING
BECAUSE THERE ARE BUSSES THAT
ARE IN A STADIUM AND THERE ARE
PLENTY OF PEOPLE WHO WOULD LOVE
TO LIVE ALONG STADIUM BECAUSE
CONVENIENT NICE TO A LOT
OF RETAIL, NICE TO OUR
BEAUTIFUL OUR PARKS AND WE
SHOULD GET MORE PEOPLE THE
OPPORTUNITY LIVING HARBOR DC
ONE HAS EVERYTHING THAT A GOOD
ZONING COACH TO HAVE.
IT ALLOWS FOR PLENTY OF HOUSING
AND ALLOWS FOR IT TO BE
CONTEXTUAL WITH THE HOUSING
WITH THE EXISTING AREA AROUND
IT.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S GOOD IN EVERY KIND
OF WAY SO I THINK THE CITY
COUNCIL FOR THEIR WORK I THINK
THE PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
THEIR WORK AND KIND OF JUST
GIVE MORE ENCOURAGEMENT TO MORE
HOUSING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
MY NAME IS EDWARD GOMERY.
I LIVE IN THE FOURTH WARD.
I TOO WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT ON
HARP&apos;S STREET AND COLOR ROAD
AND A COUPLE OF ROADS THAT ARE
NOT IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD BUT IN
AN ADJACENT NEIGHBORHOOD.
THE I WAS OUT OF MY BIKE THIS
WEEKEND AND MET WITH SOME FOLKS
FROM THE GIVE GIVE THREE SIXTY
FIVE PROGRAM AT THE PARKS AND
THEY LET ME KNOW THAT IT WAS
POSSIBLE WHO AS A CITIZEN
VOLUNTEER OUT OF THE PARK HELP
THEM IMPROVE THE WEBSITE, MAKE
SURE THAT THEY HAVE SOME
CONTEXT FOR IT, FIGURE OUT
WHERE THE PARKING IS IF YOU&apos;RE
GOING TO PARK THERE, WHAT HAVE
YOU.
AND SO I VOLUNTEERED FOR
WOODBURY PARK.
MY MOTHER IN LAW LIVES RIGHT
NEXT TO THE PARK AND SO I&apos;M IN
THAT AREA QUITE A BIT AND I
SORT OF KNOW WHAT I&apos;M GOING TO
SAY ABOUT THIS BECAUSE I&apos;VE
BEEN BEEN THROUGH IT BEFORE.
THERE&apos;S A ACCESS CARD BETWEEN
WOODBURY PARK AND HARPE STREET
THAT HAS A TREE THAT&apos;S THIS BIG
AROUND IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
PARK.
THERE&apos;S ANOTHER ACCESS CUT
WHICH I BELIEVE IS IN THE SITE
PLANNED FOR WOODBERRY GARDENS
AT THE END OF THE ROAD THAT MY
NEIGHBOR IS SCARRED FOR LIFE
BECAUSE HER SHE HAD SHE RAN
INTO THE RAGGEDY FENCE THERE
AND AND CUT HERSELF ON IT SO
YOU KNOW, THE CITY HAS A LOT
OF PARKS.
THERE&apos;S A LOT GOING ON IN SOME
OF THE PARKS.
THERE&apos;S NOT MUCH GOING ON.
SOME OF THE OTHER PARKS THERE&apos;S
OBVIOUSLY NOT BEEN TOO MANY
PEOPLE WHO&apos;VE COMPLAINED OR
NOTIFIED OR LET THE CITY KNOW
WHAT&apos;S GOING ON ABOUT THESE
OBSTACLES TO ENJOYING THIS
PARTICULAR PARK AND I&apos;M HOPEFUL
TO GET SOME INSIGHT.
I MEAN WOODBURY PARKS, A VERY
LOVELY PARK.
IT&apos;S ALSO RIGHT NEXT TO A
STRETCH OF SIDEWALK.
I HAVE NO IDEA WHO OWNS THAT
PARTICULAR SIDEWALK WITH THE
TREE IN THE MIDDLE OF IT AND
OVERGROWN VEGETATION AND IN
PARKS IMPASSABLE SO YOU KNOW, I
THINK THIS IS THE SORT OF THING
THAT COULD BE FIXED FRANKLY IF
EVERYONE LINED UP TO TO DO A
LITTLE BIT OF WORK, WHETHER
IT&apos;S THE ADJACENT PROPERTY
OWNER OR THE APARTMENT
RESIDENTS OR THE NEIGHBORS OR
WHAT HAVE YOU, I THINK THIS IS
LIKE A TWO ONE AVENUE JOB TO
MAKE A DENT IN SOMETHING THAT
SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN NEGLECTED
FOR FOUR YEARS AS TO THE FENCE
AT THE END OF KOLAR, IT&apos;S
COMPLETELY UNCLEAR TO ME WHO&apos;S
RESPONSIBLE FOR THAT PARTICULAR
PUBLIC HEALTH HAZARD THE CITY
WHEN WHEN I DO SEE A QUICK FIX
FOR THAT PROBABLY TRIED TO
CLOSE IT.
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW REALLY WHO WHO
OWNS THAT PROBLEM BUT IT&apos;S A
PROBLEM.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
JIM ROBINSON AGAIN.
SO I WANTED TO FOLLOW UP ON
SOME OF THE BUDGET THINGS THAT
I WAS TALKING ABOUT.
SO AS A PERSON WHO&apos;S BEEN
FOLLOWING THE BUDGET FOR A LONG
TIME, ANN ARBOR HAS A BUDGET
PROBLEM AND IT&apos;S NOT BECAUSE
OF MANAGEMENT OR ANYTHING ELSE.
THERE&apos;S SOME STRUCTURAL THINGS
AND THE IMPEDIMENTS TO MAKING
IT MORE FUNCTIONAL ARE
REMOVABLE.
SO WHAT DO WE DO RIGHT WHEN IT
COMES TO PUBLIC SECTOR FUNDING?
PEOPLE HAVE HAD TO RESORT TO
MILEAGES RIGHT IN A CITY LIKE
THIS THERE SHOULD BE AN ABILITY
IN A REGULAR BUDGET PROCESS TO
HAVE ENVIRONMENTAL STUFF, TO
HAVE HOUSING, TO HAVE YOU KNOW,
PUBLIC SERVICES THAT SHOULD YOU
KNOW AND HAVE SOCIAL SERVICES
THAT SHOULD BE POSSIBLE AND WE
ALL KIND OF HAVE A SENSE OF WHY
THAT&apos;S NOT TRUE.
THERE USED TO BE A TIME BACK IN
1984 WHEN THE UNIVERSITY
ACTUALLY PAY THE CITY FOR FIRE
AND POLICE SERVICES.
THEY ACTUALLY BROUGHT A CHECK.
IMAGINE THAT WE CAN&apos;T EVEN
BEGIN TO IMAGINE
THAT RIGHT
THERE ALL KINDS OF REASONS FOR
THAT.
BUT WE JUST NEED TO BREAK OUT
OF SOME OF THESE THINGS.
LET&apos;S TALK ABOUT COORDINATED
FUNDING.
FIFTY YEARS GO BLACK ACTIVIST
IN TOWN STARTED GOING INTO
WHITE CHURCHES CHARLES THOMAS
JR AND HE WALKED INTO THE
CHURCHES AND HE SAID REPARATORY
WALK UP TO THE PULPIT WITHOUT
SIGNING UP AND SAID REPARATIONS
NOW AND FINALLY IN FAITH
COMMUNITY CREATED THE
INTERFAITH COUNCIL
OF CONGREGATIONS.
IT WAS THE UNITED WAY
COORDINATED FUNDING FIFTY YEARS
AGO GAVE SOUTHWEST COMMUNITY
FOR SERVICES ITS FIRST GRANT
AND NO LONGER EXISTS BECAUSE IT
WAS NEW ANYMORE.
IT WAS HARD TO GET PEOPLE TO
VOLUNTEER FOR IT.
YOU KNOW HOW THAT IS RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHAT HAPPENED.
SO WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT THESE
THINGS WHERE WE HAVE THESE
OTHER OPTIONS INDEPENDENT
OF THE VILLAGES, IT&apos;S THE
RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY.
SO I CALL THAT THE FAITH OR YOU
HAVE PEOPLE DONATING TO
NONPROFITS.
RIGHT.
AND THAT&apos;S THE APATHY SURCHARGE
OR YOU HAVE VOLUNTEERS WHO ARE
ENDLESSLY VOLUNTEERING TO THE
SINKING FUND.
RIGHT.
THESE ARE NOT THINGS THAT ARE
GOING TO WORK OVER IN THE LONG
TERM AND SO WE NEED TO RETHINK
HOW WE&apos;RE THINKING ABOUT THOSE
THINGS.
IF YOU LOOK BACK AT THAT 2009
ARTICLE FROM THE CHRONICLE,
YOU&apos;LL SEE TWO THINGS ONE, THE
DIFFERENCE IN JOURNALISM
NOWADAYS, RIGHT THEN LIFE IS
PREDICTABLE.
THE CLODAGH SAY YOU&apos;RE DOLING
OUT MONEY TO THE NONPROFITS.
IF YOU SAID THAT WE&apos;RE DOLING
OUT MONEY TO THE REPORTERS,
THEY MIGHT GET A LITTLE YASIIN
NOT THINK THAT WAS VERY
RESPECTFUL.
RIGHT.
AND WE NEED TO REALLY THINK
THROUGH THAT AND IT&apos;S IMPORTANT
AS I SAID AT THE VERY LAST
THERE WE&apos;RE GOING TO LOSE SOME
REALLY TALENTED PEOPLE WHO ARE
WORKING IN OUR CURRENT
NONPROFIT SECTOR IF WE DON&apos;T
FIND A SOLUTION.
THANK YOU.
PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; HI MY NAME IS TEACHER
BARTON.
I LIVE IN WARD FOUR I THIS IS
THE FIRST YEAR I HAVE
PARTICIPATED IN NO MORE AND I&apos;D
LIKE TO THANK THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS WHO SET THAT UP.
I WOULD LIKE THAT AS A
SUGGESTION FOR NEXT YEAR YOU
PROVIDE SIGNS FOR CITIZENS
BECAUSE EVERY SINGLE ONE OF MY
NEIGHBOR HAS COMPLAINED ABOUT
ME NOT MOWING MY LAWN SO I
WOULD JUST THINK MAYBE LIKE A
SIGN OR SOMETHING THAT LETS THE
COMMUNITY KNOW THAT INDIVIDUAL
CITIZENS ARE PARTICIPATING THIS
IS ALSO ANOTHER SUGGESTION I
NOTICED THAT THE CITY ACTUALLY
MOWED ALL OF THEIR LAWNS
THROUGH LIKE THE ROAD DIVIDES
AND STUFF LIKE THAT.
AND SO I THINK WITH THE CITY
HAVING MORE GRASS THAN ANY ONE
INDIVIDUAL MAYBE THAT WOULD BE
MORE BENEFICIAL TOWARDS ALL
OF THE BENEFITS THAT NO MOM
HAS.
SO THAT&apos;S JUST A SUGGESTION
THAT I&apos;VE SEEN AS THAT I WOULD
ALSO LIKE TO THANK COUNCIL
MEMBER ROB MOLEFE WHO IS ONE
OF THE LIAISON FOR ACTUALLY
SPEAKING WITH ME AND HELPING
YOU GET THAT ISSUE ACTUALLY
BROUGHT UP BY THEM.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO THANK
COMMISSIONER GRISWOLD FOR
HAVING AN HONEST CONVERSATION
WITH ME ABOUT WHAT IS AND IS
THAT POSSIBLE WHEN SPEAKING AT
THESE MEETINGS.
I ALSO DO THINK THAT SHE HAS
BROUGHT UP THE CEASE AND DESIST
LETTERS ON THE CLOSED SESSIONS
AS A CITIZEN I THINK THAT MAYBE
THIS COUNCIL SHOULD ACTUALLY
DISCUSS THAT INSTEAD OF IT
SEEMS LIKE JUST PASSING IT ON
OR HOWEVER YOU GUYS DECIDE TO
DO THAT.
IT SEEMS LIKE THERE&apos;S NOT
ENOUGH VOTES OR ACTUAL
WILLINGNESS TO DISCUSS THAT.
SO I JUST WANT TO AGREE THAT
MAYBE THE CEASE AND DESIST
LETTERS ON THESE ISSUES WITH
LARGE CORPORATIONS AND FORMER
CITY ADMINISTRATORS MIGHT
ACTUALLY BENEFIT THE CITY IF
YOU GUYS ACTUALLY ADDRESS IT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; I WONDERED HOW MANY KOOKS
AND HOW MANY CHICKENS ARE
NEEDED TO ACHIEVE RESULTS.
TWENTY TO GINZBERG 50 CHICKENS
FOR 100 CHICKENS PER ACRE
THOUSAND CHICKENS PER ACRE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M THAT THAT&apos;S MY MY MY
NEIGHBORHOOD PROBABLY AVERAGES
ONLY ONE CHICKEN FOR A SINGLE
CHICKEN ACRE ARE SERIOUSLY
HOARDING THE LAND.
&gt;&gt; ELIZABETH ELIZABETH NELSON
SAID THAT YOU COULD HEAR ME AT
HOME THIS RIGHT HERE NEXT ONE
SAME CONVERSATION MY HUSBAND
SAID NO CHICKENS.
JEFF LET ME START AGAIN SO I
CAN PUT ISN&apos;T THE RECORD IN THE
MICROPHONE.
I WONDER JUST HOW MANY AND HOW
MANY CHICKENS ARE NEEDED TO
ACHIEVE RESULTS.
TWENTY CHICKENS PER ACRE.
FIFTY CHICKENS PER ACRE.
ONE HUNDRED CHICKENS PER ACRE.
ONE THOUSAND CHICKENS PER ACRE.
MY NEIGHBORHOOD PROBABLY
AVERAGES ONLY ONE CHICKEN PER
ACRE.
THESE SINGLE CHICKEN IS
SERIOUSLY HURTING THE LAND.
ELIZABETH NELSON CANDIDATE FOR
CITY COUNCIL WORD FOR MY
HUSBAND SAID NO CHICKENS.
JEFF, YOUR COMMENT IS JUST THE
SUPPORT I NEED CHICKEN EMOJI,
CHICKEN EMOJI, CHICKEN EMOJI,
CHICKEN CHICKEN EMOJI
TECHNOLOGY TECHNOLOGY
TECHNOLOGY TECHNOLOGY CATHY
GRISWOLD WOW THAT TOOK TWO AND
A HALF MINUTES.
I ALSO WANT TO SAY KNOWING WHAT
YOU ADVOCATE AT THE MEETING
FIRST YOU SAID YOU WANT TO WAIT
FOR NATIONAL STANDARDS POLICING
.
ARE YOU PAYING ATTENTION AND
WHAT&apos;S HAPPENING IN TEXAS?
THAT&apos;S THE NATIONAL STANDARD.
THAT&apos;S A NATIONAL STANDARD.
DO WE WANT THAT?
NO, NO.
AND LASTLY, YOU SHOULD REALLY
SEND THE INSPECTION REPORTS TO
PANITZ BECAUSE SOME BAD.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
SO ANYONE ELSE IN THE ROOM
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO PUBLIC
COMMENT MAHMOUDI.
I DO HAVE A CALLER ON THE LINE.
THANK YOU.
CALLER AT THE PHONE I&apos;M WRITING
IN FOR SIX FOR GO AHEAD.
&gt;&gt; OKAY OKAY.
YES WE CAN I BY COME TO TALK
ABOUT MY
BROMINATED PUT IT IN A
LITTLE STEP IN YOUR YARD BUT I
DID A LITTLE BIT ON LATER BUT I
UNDERSTAND THEY WILL TRY TO
ABIDE BY IT AND I FEEL LIKE
THAT IN
ORDER.
I THINK IT WAS A LITTLE JOKE OK
,IT WAS VERY WELL BUT KEEP FOR
PEOPLE LIKE MY BIG BANK ACCOUNT
BILL PEOPLE PEOPLE WEALTHY
PEOPLE WHO CAN AFFORD TO BUY
EXPENSIVE RENT FOR ABOUT LOW
INCOME PEOPLE.
SO WHAT ABOUT MY POINT IS THAT
YOUR GETTING ACCUSATION AND
THANK YOU
ADAM GOODMAN.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD.
YEAH.
HEY, UM, UM I&apos;M GOOD.
I&apos;M ALSO SPEAKING FROM WARD
FIVE.
UM, I JUST WANTED TO QUICKLY
FOLLOW UP ON WHAT AT&amp;T WAS
TALKING ABOUT.
SO, UH, ON THE CITY
OF ENTERPRISE WEBSITE IT FOUND
THAT THERE&apos;S THIS THERE&apos;S A
FEATURE WHERE YOU CAN GO AND
LOOK AT OLD BUILDING PERMITS
AND TYPE PLANS.
IT&apos;S THAT IT&apos;S YOU KNOW, IF YOU
ARE LIKE ME AND FIND YOURSELF
INTERESTED IN SUCH THINGS, IT&apos;S
KIND OF FASCINATING TO SEE WHAT
WHAT THESE RECORDS LOOK LIKE
FOR A FEW DECADES AGO AS OUR
CITY WAS GETTING BUILT AT BUT
SAY PLANS YOU CAN ALSO SEE
SPECIFICALLY PEDESTRIAN
PATHWAYS THAT WERE INCLUDED AND
SOME OF THESE OBVIOUSLY WERE
INTENDED TO CONNECT TO YOU
KNOW, OTHER SITES TO TO SOME
PUBLIC STREET ON THE OTHER
SIDE.
SO THIS KIND OF PATHWAY
WAS ON
THE SITE PLAN FOR WOODBERRY
GARDENS, THE PATHWAY ON THE
WEST SIDE CONNECTING THE
PARKING WAS ON THE SITE PLANNED
FOR THE WELDON VILLAGE CONDO
COMPLEX AND THERE IS IT WAS THE
WITH APARTMENTS I FORGOT THE
CURRENT NAME ACTUALLY BUT
THERE&apos;S A PATHWAY THAT GOES
BASICALLY FROM BETWEEN THE TWO
JUST JOINT SIDES OF FAIR STREET
BECAUSE ALL OF THESE THINGS ARE
VERY USEFUL IMPORTANT
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE
IN OUR CITY BECAUSE OFTEN THEY
ARE CLOSING GAPS THAT WOULD
OTHERWISE REQUIRE PEOPLE TO
WALK, YOU KNOW, POTENTIALLY A
MILE OR MILES OUT OF THEIR WAY
TO GET FROM FROM ONE SIDE TO
THE OTHER IN THESE THINGS WERE
INCLUDED IN SITE PLANS.
NOW AHEAD OF TIME THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
BUT IT SEEMS LOGICAL TO ASSUME
THAT THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
ALSO SAID THAT THIS WOULD BE
AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC USE
BECAUSE OTHERWISE WHY ARE THEY
BEING BUILT SO I FIND IT PRETTY
CONCERNING THAT WE HAVE JUST
FORGOTTEN ABOUT THESE AND IN
MANY CASES LET THEM COME DOWN
TO NOTHING OR GET BLOCKED BY
FENCES OR GET BLOCKED BY BRUSH
AND SO THIS IS WHY THAT IS GO
ALONG WITH I WAS HAPPY TO SEE
THIS ISSUE GETTING SOME
ATTENTION.
THIRTY SECONDS TO THE RUNNYMEDE
PATHWAY BUT I WAS VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT THAT RESOLUTION
BECAUSE IT WAS ABSOLVING
SOMETHING THAT THESE DEVELOPERS
DECADES AGO BOUGHT THESE THINGS
FOR THE PUBLIC AND ONE WOULD
ASSUME THAT THERE WAS AN
OBLIGATION FOR ONGOING
MAINTENANCE ALONG WITH THAT.
OTHERWISE, YOU KNOW, WHAT ARE
WE EVEN DOING HERE RIGHT.
AND THERE ARE MANY OF THESE
AROUND THE ENTIRE CITY.
SO I REALLY WANT TO SEE A
SYSTEMATIC SOLUTION WHERE WE
ACTUALLY GO AND INVENTORY ALL
OF THESE AND I CAN&apos;T BE TO TO
DEAL WITH THEM.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS UP AT THIS
TIME.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
SEE NO ONE COME AND HIS CLOTHES
ARE THE COMMUNICATIONS COUNCIL
COUNCIL PRIOR.
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO RESPOND TO A COUPLE
OF ISSUES THAT CAME UP IN
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THE FIRST IS THE WELL THEY&apos;RE
ALL IN THE SAME AREA BUT THE
ISSUES OF SIDEWALKS AND FRANKLY
TRAFFIC CALMING IS ANOTHER
ISSUE THAT&apos;S TIED INTO THAT IN
THE AREA AROUND HARP&apos;S AND DO
IT AND AND ROSEWOOD AS ONE
OF OUR ATTENDEES HERE BROUGHT
UP THIS ISSUE WITH SOMETHING I
BEGAN TO HEAR ABOUT RIGHT.
REALLY AS I WAS CAMPAIGNING.
AND SO LAST YEAR I BROUGHT
TOGETHER PAPERED THE
NEIGHBORHOOD WITH BROCHURES FOR
A COMMUNITY MEETING.
SEVERAL RESIDENTS SHOWED UP.
WE TALKED ABOUT TAKING A
HOLISTIC APPROACH IN TERMS
OF TRYING TO PETITION FOR
SIDEWALK GAP CLOSURES AS WELL
AS TRAFFIC CALMING THROUGHOUT
THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE&apos;VE SEEN TRAFFIC CALMING
PIECEMEAL THROUGHOUT THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT REALLY JUST
SHIFTS THE BURDEN ONTO OTHER
STREETS WHEN THAT HAPPENS.
SO THOSE RESIDENTS AND I ARE
WORKING WITH CITY STAFF TO TRY
TO CRAFT A PETITION FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT ENCOMPASSES
ALL OF THE ISSUES AND I JUST
WANTED TO MAKE THAT KNOWN AND
ANYONE WHO&apos;S INTERESTED I
WELCOME YOU TO JOIN US IN THAT
EFFORT AS WE GO AND TALK TO
NEIGHBORS.
&gt;&gt; THE OTHER THING IS THE COLER
ROAD, THE FENCE ISSUE TO
WOODBURY GARDENS UM THAT IS
ANOTHER ISSUE THAT WAS BROUGHT
TO MY ATTENTION A FEW MONTHS
AGO AND I&apos;VE BEEN WORKING WITH
CITY STAFF CITY STAFF IS
WORKING WITH WOODBERRY GARDENS
AND ALTHOUGH I DON&apos;T HAVE AN
UPDATE AT THIS TIME, PLEASE
KNOW THAT CITY STAFF ARE
ACTIVELY WORKING ON IT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, COUNCILMAN
BRENNER.
THANKS, MR. MAYOR.
ALMOST EVERYTHING.
SINGING HAPPY BIRTHDAY MY SON
LOGAN&apos;S BIRTHDAY&apos;S TODAY AND HE
HE SHARES A HE SHARES A
BIRTHDAY THAT DAY JUNE SIX THAT
IS USED TO BE KIND OF HAROLD
AND IT&apos;S KIND OF SLIPPED FROM
OUR KIND OF PUBLIC CONVERSATION
LATELY.
OF COURSE JUNE SIX IS WHAT USED
TO BE KNOWN OR IS STILL KNOWN
AS D DAY.
AND SO I DEDICATE MY MOMENT
OF SILENCE TO EVERYBODY WHO
SERVED AND HAS SERVED AND
CONTINUES TO SERVE OUR COUNTRY
AND IN THAT CAPACITY AND OUR
VETERANS GET A SHORT SHRIFT
HERE WHEN THEY COME HOME AND
IT&apos;S A SHAME AND HOPEFULLY WE
COULD DO MORE ABOUT THAT.
YOU KNOW, JUNE SIX IS WELL
KNOWN FOR THE INVASION&apos;S
NORMANDY AND FIFTY THOUSAND
SOME RIFLEMEN WENT THERE AND
SUPPOSEDLY SAVED THE WORLD FROM
FASCISM SO A WELL REGULATED
MILITIA HAS ITS PURPOSES
UNFORTUNATELY AND OUR VIOLENT
AND GUN HAPPY CULTURE I MEAN
TRY AND SEE A MOVIE WITHOUT A
GUN IN IT RIGHT?
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S GOTTEN IT&apos;S
GOTTEN WELL OUT OF HAND,
OF COURSE.
SO I PARTICIPATED IN NO MORE
MAN FOR MY TROUBLE.
I GOT A TICKET FROM THE CITY SO
WE HAVE A SORT OF A SNITCH
CULTURE THAT&apos;S CREATED AROUND
COMMUNITY STANDARDS.
ANYONE CAN ANONYMOUSLY COMPLAIN
ABOUT ANYONE FOR ANYTHING AND
THEN COMMUNITY STANDARDS
OFFICERS IS DUTIFULLY
DISPATCHED YEAR AFTER YEAR,
WEEK AFTER WEEK TO HAVE TO
DECIDE IF THERE&apos;S A VIOLATION
AND WE COULD STAND TO DO
SOMETHING ABOUT THAT BECAUSE I
IMAGINE THE MOST FRUSTRATING
THING IT IS FOR FOLKS WHO ARE
BESET UPON WITH ONE OF THESE
TICKETS IS THAT THE STANDARDS
OFFICER DOESN&apos;T LOOK UP AND
DOWN THE BLOCK WHEN THEY&apos;RE OUT
THERE ANYWAY AND WRITE TICKETS
TO EVERYBODY ELSE WHO&apos;S IN
VIOLATION OF THE EXACT SAME
THING.
AND THAT&apos;S A PROBLEM WE HAVE
AND I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW THAT&apos;S
GOING TO GET FIXED.
&gt;&gt; WE ALSO DECIDE WE&apos;LL GET
PRIORITIES IN MY WORD ALONE.
WE HAVE A COUPLE OF STREETS
WHERE THEY SERVE AVALON HOUSING
AND OTHER HOUSING AREAS AND
THEY HAVEN&apos;T HAD A SIDEWALK
THERE AND THOSE SIDEWALKS HAVE
BEEN BITTERLY FOUGHT BY
RESIDENTS WHO DON&apos;T WANT A
SIDEWALK IN FRONT OF THEIR
HOUSE.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT WE&apos;RE GOING
TO DO ABOUT THAT BUT WE NEED WE
DEFINITELY NEED TO REVIEW OUR
SIDEWALK PRIORITIZATION.
I KNOW WE&apos;VE WORKED MATRIX BUT
IT HASN&apos;T BEEN ENOUGH SO FOR
THE COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
COUNCILMAN OSWALD, I WANT TO
CLARIFY MY STATEMENTS ABOUT
LAWYERS ON AUTOPILOT AND MY
EXTREME THRUST ORATION WITH THE
GUNMAN WHO IS NOT IN ANY WAY
DIRECTED AT OUR NEW CITY
ATTORNEY AND I AM THRILLED THAT
SHE BRINGS A VERY VALUABLE
SKILL SET TO THE CITY.
HOWEVER, WE HAVE STRUGGLED FOR
MANY, MANY YEARS AND MS FOR IS
IS STILL BEING DISCUSSED AND
DEBATED.
MS FOUR IS THE DIOXIN TAINTED
WATER THAT IS SEEPING INTO THE
ALLEN CREEK DRAIN.
I DID BRING FORWARD A
RESOLUTION FOR OUR COUNTY TO
ADDRESS THAT AND IT IS BEING
DISCUSSED AT ALL LEVELS
OF GOVERNMENT UP TO THE FEDERAL
LEVEL AND HOPEFULLY SOMETHING
WILL BE DONE.
I ALSO WANT TO MENTION THAT I
WAS TALKING TO THE LIEUTENANT
GOVERNOR GARLAND GILCHRIST.
HE&apos;S A FELLOW U OF M GRAD AND
MENTIONED THE RESOLUTION FOR U
OF M HOUSING AND HIS RESPONSE
WAS TAKE A LOOK AT THE
GOVERNOR&apos;S HOUSING PLAN.
SO I WOULD ENCOURAGE ANYONE WHO
IS INTERESTED IN GETTING
WORKFORCE HOUSING IN THE NEAR
FUTURE CONTACT ME AND LET&apos;S SEE
WHAT WHAT THE GOVERNOR IS DOING
AND IN WHAT CAN BE DONE HERE IN
ANN ARBOR.
AND LASTLY, WE HAD A TRAGEDY ON
THE RAILROAD TRACKS AND I KNOW
THAT IN THE CHP IS A PROPOSAL
FOR A UNDERPASS OF THE RAILROAD
TRACKS AND I WOULD LIKE TO ASK
STAFF IF THERE&apos;S ANY WAY WE CAN
MOVE THAT FORWARD AND POSSIBLY
USE FEDERAL OR STATE FUNDS TO
TO GET THAT UNDERPASS AND IT&apos;S
DESPERATELY NEEDED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS.
THANKS.
I&apos;M GOING TO CONTINUE ON WITH
THE THEME OF SIDEWALK GAPS.
APPRECIATE THAT THAT ISSUE WAS
RAISED DURING PUBLIC COMMENT.
AS COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER
MENTIONED, THERE IS A MATRIX
WHICH HAS BEEN UPDATED BY
STAFF.
IT IS USED AS A TOOL TO
IDENTIFY WHERE SIDEWALK GAPS
ARE FILLED.
THIS ISN&apos;T SOMETHING THAT IS
LED BY COUNCIL THOUGH CERTAINLY
COUNCIL POLICY HAS INFLUENCED
SOME OF THOSE PRIORITIES IN
TERMS OF THINKING ABOUT ACCESS
TO PARKS AND SCHOOLS AND
TRANSIT ANOTHER IMPORTANT OTHER
DESTINATIONS BASED ON THE I&apos;M
ACTUALLY NOT EXACTLY FAMILIAR
WITH THE POLICE THAT YOU&apos;RE
SUGGESTING BUT BASED ON THE THE
BUILT ENVIRONMENT THAT YOU
SUGGESTED, I&apos;M ACTUALLY
QUESTIONING WHETHER OR NOT THAT
WAS ACTUALLY FUNDED BY OUR
SIDEWALK BECAUSE IT SOUNDS LIKE
IT WAS NOT SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL BUT WE CAN KIND
OF LOOK INTO THAT.
BUT REST ASSURED THAT THAT IS
NOT SOMETHING THAT THE COUNCIL
INFLUENCES.
BUT CERTAINLY WE NEED TO
IDENTIFY WHAT OUR PRIORITIES
ARE IN FILLING OUR SIDEWALK
GAPS.
WE KNOW THAT WE HAVE TOO MANY
IN OUR COMMUNITY AND THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT DESPITE THE FACT
THAT THE COMMUNITY HAS BEEN
VERY GENEROUS IN RECOGNIZING
THIS AS A COMMUNITY PRIORITY,
IT&apos;S GOING TO TAKE MANY YEARS
TO FILL THEM.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER I&apos;M LIKE
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO TALK ABOUT A
COUPLE I GUESS SUCCESS IS THAT
I HAD EARLY ON HERE AND ONE IS
UM GETTING THE SIDEWALK GET
MILEAGE ON OF IN APPROVED I
WORKED WITH UH FORMER CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND OTHER FORMER
COLLEAGUES TO GET THAT ON THE
BELL AND NOW WE&apos;RE RAISING
MONEY ANNUAL BASIS NOT PUTTING
THOSE UH COSTS AND AND
BURDENING
HOMES AND HOMEOWNERS
AND PROPERTY OWNERS AND THE
AMOUNT IS NOT SHARED EQUALLY
AMONG THE COMMUNITY AND THAT IS
SOMETHING I THINK THAT IS
HELPING THEM SIDEWALK GAPS BE
FILLED RIGHT NOW.
ANOTHER ONE IS THE MURPH MURPH
IS BACK UP AND RUNNING THAT WAS
ABOUT TO BE SCRAPPED AND NOT
USED AND UNFORTUNATELY WE WE
SAVED IT IN UH THERE IS AN
ANNOUNCEMENT I CAME OUT TODAY
THEY&apos;LL BE RE STICKER IN THE
CART.
UH, WE WILL NOT BE ACCEPTING
SHREDDED PAPER SCRAP METAL IN
THE CARTS AND PLASTICS ONLY I
THINK ONE, TWO AND FIVE.
SO NEXT UH IN THE NEXT FEW
WEEKS THE CITY HAS CONTRACTED A
COMPANY COME OUT AND RELABELED
OUR RECYCLING CARD SO WE CAN DO
A BETTER JOB OF UH OF RECYCLING
.
WE HAVE TO GET OUR
CONTAMINATION RATE DOWN AND IN
ORDER TO ABIDE BY THE CONTRACT
THAT WE SIGNED WITH RECYCLING
ARBOR.
UM, I ALSO JUST THINK AS A BODY
I DON&apos;T THINK WE&apos;RE DOING AS
GOOD AS I WOULD WISH A BOARD TO
DO WHEN IT COMES TO THEIR
MONEY.
UH, I&apos;VE SEEN HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS THIS
YEAR BEING MISALLOCATED OR NOT
GETTING THE KIND OF RETURN ON
INVESTMENT WE DESERVE AS A
COMMUNITY.
I&apos;M DISAPPOINTED THAT THE OVER
HALF MILLION DOLLARS IN BUDGET
AMENDMENTS THAT I BROUGHT
FORWARD FOR KOFU FUNDING ARE
NOT APPROVED AND NOW WE&apos;RE
FACING A BIG SHORTFALL HERE IN
THIS COMMUNITY.
UH, IT&apos;S A FAILURE
OF LEADERSHIP ON THIS BOARD.
IT&apos;S A FAILURE OF OUR
PRIORITIES AND WHERE OUR
PRIORITIES ARE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER COUNCIL MURSAL.
SO THE NEW NEW HUMAN SERVICES
PARTNERSHIP IS ACTUALLY THE
PROCESSES ONGOING.
THERE&apos;S ANOTHER SUMMER GRANT
MEETING GRANT MAYBE GRANT
OPPORTUNITY THAT&apos;S HAPPENING
THIS SUMMER.
THEY&apos;RE HIGH IMPACT GRANTS.
THEY&apos;RE HOPING THIS FALL WINTER
WE ALLOCATED ONE POINT SIX
MILLION FROM ARPA MONEY, ONE
MILLION FROM OUR GENERAL BUDGET
THE COUNTY AFTER AFTER
ADVOCATES CAME FORWARD RIGHTLY
INCREASED THEIR GENERAL BUDGET
ALLOCATION AND ALSO LOOKED AT
STRUCTURAL FUNDING FROM THE
COUNTY.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE PART OF THE COUNTY.
THE COUNTY RECEIVES SEVENTY
MILLION ARPA FUNDING BROADBAND
RURAL BROADBAND ALONE RECEIVED
14. AGAIN.
IF WE CAN ENCOURAGE OUR COUNTY
PARTNERS TO CONSIDER SOCIAL
SERVICE AGENCIES AS BEING A
COUNTY WIDE EFFORT IN
COLLABORATION WITH OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES IN THIS COUNTY
THAT BENEFIT FROM SOCIAL
SERVICES THAT EVEN THOUGH THEY
MIGHT BE CENTERED HERE IN ANN
ARBOR IMPACT THE GREATER COUNTY
SERVICES REACH RESIDENTS FROM
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTY IF OUR
SERVICES FAIL HERE IN ANN ARBOR
IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
ANNENBERG HOUSING COMMISSION
WHERE WHERE DO RESIDENTS GO?
THEY GO IN THE COUNTY AND I&apos;M
REALLY, REALLY PLEASED TO SEE
THE COUNTY STEP UP TO THE
CHALLENGE AND I ALONE CANNOT
BEAR THIS THERE ALL THE
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR OUR SOCIAL
SERVICE AGENCIES AND WE HAVE
STEPPED UP WE HAVE ANSWERED
THAT CALL.
WE HAVE MADE INVESTMENTS AND
I&apos;M REALLY LOOKING FORWARD TO
THE LEADERSHIP AT THE COUNTY
LEVEL WHERE THOSE DOLLARS ARE
ALLOCATED IN PARTNERSHIP WITH
US TO SEE IF WE CAN ENCOURAGE
OTHER MUNICIPALITIES TO STEP UP
AND CONTRIBUTE THEIR GENERAL
FUNDS GIVEN A NUMBER
OF MUNICIPALITIES HAVE
INCREASED REVENUE IN THIS PAST
YEAR WHEN THEIR GENERAL BUDGETS
WE ARE NOT ALONE.
WE SHOULDN&apos;T SERVE FOLKS ALONE
IF WE ARE TO THINK ABOUT THIS
AS A COMMUNITY GREATER
COMMUNITY WE CHALLENGE PARTNERS
TO JOIN US AT THE TABLE FOR
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; I JUST PIGGYBACK ON THAT
STATEMENT BY SAYING, YOU KNOW,
THERE WERE OTHER COMMUNITY
PARTNERS THAT HAVE THAT HAVE
CONTRIBUTED TO HELPING OUR
SOCIAL SERVICES FUNDING AND
THEY ARE TRULY WELCOME BACK AT
THE TABLE.
AND SO WE WILL WE WILL NOT TURN
THAT MONEY AWAY.
I ALSO JUST WANT TO REMIND THE
PUBLIC THAT IF YOU HAVEN&apos;T HAD
A CHANCE TO PROVIDE YOUR INPUT
ON THE PARKS AND RECREATION
OPEN SPACE PLAN OR THE PURCHASE
PLAN, IT&apos;S NOT TOO LATE.
YOU CAN DO SO TOMORROW UNTIL
ELEVEN FIFTY NINE PM AND A LOT
OF DECISIONS GET MADE ABOUT
PARKS FUNDING AND SPENDING.
THIS IS REALLY OUR KIND OF GOLD
STANDARD IN TERMS OF PUBLIC
INPUT.
SO IF YOU ARE SOMEONE WHO&apos;S IN
THE LAST FIVE YEARS HAS ENJOYED
PLAYING PICKUP PICKLEBALL ONE
OF OUR COURTS THAT HAS A LOT TO
DO WITH PUBLIC INPUT FROM THE
FIRST HAND.
SO IF THERE&apos;S SOMETHING THAT
YOU&apos;RE NOT SEEING IN OUR PARKS
I DEFINITELY ENCOURAGE YOU TO
FEEL BETTER OR SOMETHING THAT
YOU REALLY LIKE AND YOU WANT TO
SEE US CONTINUE TO DO IT.
SO PLEASE PROVIDE THAT INPUT.
IT&apos;S OPEN UNTIL TOMORROW.
&gt;&gt; THANKS SO MUCH FOR THE
COMMUNICATION COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
GRISWOLD SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER MORE DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED RETURNED